pages total: 3
------------------------------
------------
page 1
------
 
I am Quater. 
Read my words, 
and be my friend.
 
Father commands me to 
record the truth of 
history, so that readers 
will learn from those who 
went before.
 
Therefore, I give each of 
my seven sons one of these 
self-engraving, history-
recording klay walls.
------------
page 2
------
 
This wall automatically 
records the activity in 
this world, and in any 
other world containing one 
of the other walls.
 
Behold. Anyone who tampers 
with the records on these 
walls will be considered 
the enemy of Father. I will 
not like you much, either.
 
This wall is given by 
Father. It will teach you 
to acquire wisdom, 
------------
page 3
------
 
integrity and skills for 
solving problems. 
 
In each of our lives, we 
must make decisions. When 
these times come, be ready 
to make the right choices. 
 
Continue in what you know 
is true, though truth is 
often hard to see. These 
walls may hold the only 
truths you will know.
 
Quater
------------------------------
pages total: 3
