pages total: 17
------------------------------
------------
page 1
------
Quater made Homen and gave 
him two crowns and let him 
decide what to do with the 
extra one.  Homen had a son 
named Pinto Bunyan to whom 
he immediately gave his 
second crown.  Pinto Bunyan 
helped Homen with all that 
he did.
 
Homen made a bunch of 
beings called Ynts.  The 
Ynts were blue and looked 
like little bugs.  The Blue 
Ynts spent their first day 
of existence fashioning 
small spears.  Soon the 
Ynts had broken up into 
small communities.  Each 
community had a specific 
task to accomplish which 
helped all of the other Ynt 
communities.  Blue Ynt 
South was in charge of 
growing food.  Blue Ynt 
North built housing for
 
------------
page 2
------
other communities, and so 
on and so forth.
 
All was peaceful and 
working efficiently, so 
Pinto Bunyan made some Ynts 
of his own -- only his were 
white.  
 
Now it came about, when the 
White Ynts began to 
multiply on the face of the 
land, and daughters were 
born to them, that the sons 
of the Blue Ynts saw that 
the daughters of the White 
Ynts were beautiful; and 
they took wives for 
themselves, whomever they 
chose.  The Hutza Mutza 
were in the world in those 
days, and also afterward, 
when the sons of Blue Ynts 
came into the daughters of 
White Ynts, and they bore 
children to them.  Those
 
------------
page 3
------
were the mighty Ynts who 
were of old, Ynts of 
renown.  The White Ynts 
instantly mingled with the 
Blue Ynts but they refused 
to acknowledge the 
community system of the 
Blue Ynts.  The White Ynts 
enjoyed the fruits of all 
the Blue Ynts' hard work, 
but did not help them work 
at all.  It only took one 
White Ynt to throw an egg 
at a Blue Ynt one morning 
to cause a dreadful feud.
 
So Hemhemhema, of the Blue 
Ynts, rose with all the 
Blue Ynts of war to go up 
to White Ynt East; and 
Hemhemhema chose 30,000 
Blue Ynts, valiant 
warriors, and sent them out 
at night.  And he commanded 
them, saying, "See, you are 
going to ambush the city
 
------------
page 4
------
from behind it.  Do not go 
very far from the city, but 
all of you be ready.  Then 
I and all the Blue Ynts who 
are with me will approach 
the city.  And it will come 
about when they come out to 
meet us as at the first, 
that we will flee before 
them.  And they will come 
out after us until we have 
drawn them away from the 
city, for they will say, 
'They are fleeing before us 
as at the first.'  So we 
will flee before them.  And 
you shall rise from your 
ambush and take possession 
of the city.  Then it will 
be when you have seized the 
city, that you shall set 
the city on fire.  See I 
have commanded you."  Most 
of those Ynts of war in 
attendance could not 
understand Hemhemhema for
 
------------
page 5
------
the language he used was 
flowery and outdated.  
Still, few in attendance 
there from among all of 
those in attendance did 
harken and understand.  
Even did they reckon the 
sayings of Hemhemhema. And 
straight-away did they 
clue-in their buddies who 
were just lollygagging 
about, scratching their 
heads. At once all who 
heard this explanation did 
understand Hemhemhema's 
plan, so Hemhemhema sent 
them away, and they went to 
the place of ambush and 
remained between White Ynt 
West and White Ynt East, 
and the west side of White 
Ynt East; but Hemhemhema 
spent that night at the 
Wagon Leisure Inn.
 
------------
page 6
------
Now Hemhemhema rose early 
in the morning and mustered 
the Blue Ynts, and he went 
up with the elders of Blue 
Ynt before the Blue Ynts to 
White Ynt East.  Then all 
the Blue Ynts of war who 
were with him went up and 
drew near and arrived in 
front of the city, and 
camped on the north side of  
White Ynt East.  Now there 
was a valley between him 
and White Ynt East.  And he 
took about 5,000 Blue Ynts 
and set them in ambush 
between White Ynt West and 
White Ynt East, on the west 
side of the city.  So they 
stationed the Blue Ynts, 
all the army that was on 
the north side of the city, 
and its rear guard on the 
west side of the city, and 
Hemhemhema spent that night 
in Sid's "Garden Spot" 
 
------------
page 7
------
Lodge.  And it came about 
when the king of White Ynt 
East saw it, that the men 
of the city hurried and 
rose up early and went out 
to meet the Blue Ynts in 
battle, he and all his 
people at the appointed 
place before the desert 
plain.  But he did not know 
that there was an ambush 
against him behind the 
city.  And Hemhemhema and 
all the Blue Ynts pretended 
to be beaten before them, 
and fled by the way of the 
wilderness.  And all the 
people who were in the city 
were called together to 
pursue them, and they 
pursued Hemhemhema, and 
were drawn away from the 
city.  So not an Ynt was 
left in White Ynt East or 
White Ynt West who had not 
gone out after Blue Ynts
 
------------
page 8
------
and they left the city 
unguarded and pursued Blue 
Ynts.
 
Then Homen said to 
Hemhemhema, "Stretch out 
the spear that is in your 
hand toward White Ynt East, 
for I will give it into 
your hand."  So Hemhemhema 
stretched out the spear 
that was in his hand toward 
the city.  And the men in 
ambush rose quickly from 
their place, and when he 
had stretched out his hand, 
they ran and entered the 
city and captured it; and 
they quickly set the city 
on fire.  When the men of 
White Ynt East turned back 
and looked, behold, the 
smoke of the city ascended 
to the sky, and they had no 
place to flee this way or 
that, for the people who
 
------------
page 9
------
had been fleeing to the 
wilderness turned against 
the pursuers.  When 
Hemhemhema and all Blue 
Ynts saw that the men in 
ambush had captured the 
city and that the smoke of 
the city ascended, they 
turned back and slew the 
men of White Ynt East.  And 
the others came out from 
their city to encounter 
them, so that they  were 
trapped in the midst of 
Blue Ynts, some on this 
side and some on that side; 
and they slew them until no 
one was left of those who 
survived or escaped.  But 
they took alive the king of 
White Ynt East and brought 
him to Hemhemhema.
 
Now it came about when the 
Blue Ynts had finished 
killing all the inhabitants
 
------------
page 10
------
of White Ynt East in the 
field in the wilderness 
where they pursued them, 
and all of them were fallen 
by the spear until they 
were destroyed, then all 
the Blue Ynts returned to 
White Ynt East and struck 
it with the spear.  And all 
who fell that day, both 
male and female, were 
12,000 (all the people of 
White Ynt East).  For 
Hemhemhema did not withdraw 
his hand with which he 
stretched out the spear 
until he had utterly 
destroyed all the 
inhabitants of  White Ynt 
East.  So Hemhemhema burned 
White Ynt East and made it 
a heap forever, a 
desolation until this day.  
And he hanged the king of 
White Ynt East on a tree 
until evening and at sunset.
 
------------
page 11
------
Hemhemhema gave a command 
and they took his body down 
from the tree, and threw it 
at the entrance of the city 
gate and raised over it a 
great heap of stones that 
stands to this day.
 
So Itchigoplasty and all 
the White Ynts who were 
with him arose by night and 
lay in wait against Blue 
Ynt South in four 
companies.  Now Pimento 
Loofa the son of Texadrill 
went out and stood in the 
entrance of  the city gate, 
and said, "Who is 
Itchigoplasty that we 
should serve him?"; and 
Itchigoplasty and the White 
Ynts who were with him 
arose from the ambush.  And 
when Pimento Loofa, of the 
Blue Ynts, saw the White 
Ynts, he said to Factotron.
 
------------
page 12
------
"Look, Ynts are coming 
down from the tops of the 
mountains."  But Factotron 
said to him, "You are 
seeing the shadow of the 
mountains as if they were 
Ynts."  And Pimento Loofa 
spoke again and said, 
"Behold, Ynts are coming 
down from the highest part 
of the land, and one 
company comes by the way 
of the Diviners' Sandwich."  
Then Factotron said to him, 
"Where is your boasting now 
with which you said, 'Who 
is Itchigoplasty that we 
should serve him?'  Are 
these not the White Ynts 
whom you despised?  Go out 
now and fight with them!"  
So Pimento Loofa went out 
before the leaders of  Blue 
Ynt South and fought with 
Itchigoplasty.  And  
Itchigoplasty chased him
 
------------
page 13
------
and he fled before him; 
and many fell wounded at 
the entrance of the gate.  
Then Itchigoplasty remained 
at Blue Ynt West,  but 
Factotron drove out Pimento 
Loofa and his relatives so 
that  they could not remain 
in Blue Ynt South.
 
Now it came about the next 
day, that Blue Ynts went 
out to the field, and it 
was told to Itchigoplasty.  
So he took his White Ynts 
and divided them into three 
companies, and lay in wait 
in the field; when he 
looked and saw the Ynts 
coming out from the city, 
he arose against them and 
slew them.  Then 
Itchigoplasty and the 
company who was with him 
dashed forward and stood in 
the entrance of the city
 
------------
page 14
------
gate; the other two 
companies then dashed 
against all who were in the 
field and slew them.  And 
Itchigoplasty fought 
against the city all that 
day, and he captured the 
city and killed the Blue 
Ynts who were in it; then 
he razed  the city and 
sowed it with salt.
 
When all the leaders of the 
tower of Blue Ynt South 
heard of it, they entered 
the inner chamber of the 
temple of Holmarrk (or "The 
Door").  And it was told to 
Itchigoplasty that all the 
leaders of the tower of 
Blue Ynt South were 
gathered  together.  So 
Itchigoplasty went up to 
Mount Chlorescent; he and 
all the Ynts who were with 
him, and Itchigoplasty took
 
------------
page 15
------
an ax in his hand and cut 
down a branch  from the 
trees, and lifted it and 
laid it on his shoulder.  
Then he said to the Ynts 
who were with him, "What 
you  have seen me do, hurry 
and do likewise."  And all 
the Ynts also cut down each 
one his branch and followed 
Itchigoplasty, and put them 
on the inner chamber and 
set the inner chamber on 
fire over those inside, so 
that all the men of the 
tower of Blue Ynt South 
also died, about a thousand 
men and women.
 
  Then Itchigoplasty went 
to Blue Ynt Southwest and 
he camped against Blue Ynt 
Southwest and captured it.  
But there was a strong 
tower in the center of the 
city, and all the men and
 
------------
page 16
------
women with all the leaders 
of the city fled there and 
shut themselves in, and 
they went up on the roof of 
the tower.  So 
Itchigoplasty came to the 
tower and fought against 
it, and approached the 
entrance of the tower to 
burn it with fire.  But a 
certain female Ynt threw a 
16 ton weight on 
Itchigoplasty's head, 
crushing  his skull. Then 
he called quickly to a 
young Ynt, his armor 
bearer, and said to him, 
"Draw your spear and kill 
me, lest it be said of me, 
'A female Ynt slew him.'" 
So the young Ynt pierced 
him through and he died.  
And when the White Ynts saw 
that Itchigoplasty was 
dead, each departed to his 
home.
 
------------
page 17
------
When the Blue Ynts and the 
White Ynts started to 
fight, so did Pinto Bunyan 
and Homen.
 
Quater stepped-in, and took 
Pinto Bunyan's crown away 
and gave it to a new being 
he made called Arven.
 
------------------------------
pages total: 17
