pages total: 51
------------------------------
------------
page 1
------
Quater made his next being 
with a form closer to his 
own.  He attempted to 
duplicate himself, but 
because he was not as good 
of a man-builder as Father, 
the being was not quite a 
perfect duplicate. 
 
Bertbert was given powers 
of speech and reason, but 
he could not grasp that he 
was different from Quater.  
He thought he was Quater 
and instantly made seven of 
his own crowns and started 
making his own people in 
his own image.  Because 
Bertbert was an even worse 
being-maker than Quater, 
each generation looked 
worse and worse.  By the 
last generation, Bertbert's 
beings were not even alive, 
they just looked like blobs 
of meat.
 
------------
page 2
------
The lineage of Bertbert:
 
Empowered by Quater to 
create, Bertbert, believing 
that he himself was Quater, 
begat another Bertbert.  
 
This second Bertbert begat 
Bredbad, a weak attempt at 
a Bertbert; but with a 
speech impediment.
 
Bredbad was a wise being.  
"The most wise of all," it 
has been said, although no 
one knows exactly who said 
that, but it stuck.  He did 
not write down any of his 
wisdom, but his son 
Bridabrack the Literal 
transcribed Bredbad's 
lectures...
 
------------
page 3
------
The Wisdom of Bredbad, the 
son of Bertbert, the son of 
Bertbert:
 
I am not good by nature nor 
am I naturally happy.
 
But if I fall it is a fault 
of my own not my mom or 
pappy.
I have been the witness of 
one thousand fallen.
 
For this I am not 
fortunate.
 
For me it is torture-nate.
 
I ponder these 'til I am 
withered and sullen.
 
Power is pleasant if served 
under glass,  or eaten like 
pheasant causing my voice 
to rasp.
 
------------
page 4
------
The killer be killed, the 
dancing man stilled. When 
bees of plenty sting my 
heart many.
 
I emaciate... thinner, 
thinner... thinner.
 
Found are the three ways of 
Bablon:
 
1. FEAR- It eats itself 
like a snake down a hill 
and finds nourishment 
there. 
 
The bigger it gets the more 
it eats until it is 
everywhere.
 
2. GREED- Unlike fear it 
shrinks until the snake is 
something small and 
despicable.
Smelling like a torch when 
mixed with hair.
 
------------
page 5
------
3. VANITY- Is the snake 
thinking he has strong legs 
that can jump the stream.
He floats belly-up when 
caught in this snare.
 
I will share with you my 
comings and goings if you 
will listen.
 
You will join me on these 
journeys if you hasten.
We will perish if you do 
not.
 
Bredbad, having no point of 
reference but himself, 
begat Bridabrack the 
Literal.
 
Who begat Bickbak.  
Bickback was thin for his 
age and his peers mocked 
him for the purple and 
green skin splotches that 
covered his body.  
 
------------
page 6
------
Once a large crowd of 
descendants of Bert Bert 
had formed,  poor Bickback 
was made to sit in the 
back. 
 
He tried to hide his 
sadness by pretending to 
enjoy the back of the 
crowd. It was there that he 
met the rest of the back of 
the crowd. They were 
pitiful beings suffering 
from physical maladies 
almost as bad as his 
splotches. 
 
A distant cousin named 
Hiface offered to stand 
behind Bickback so that it 
would seem like he was not 
in the absolute back of the 
crowd, but Bickback chose 
to emulate the cruelty of 
the rest of the group by 
pointing out Hiface's
 
------------
page 7
------
abnormality- a tiny second 
head growing from his palm. 
He sang a song about a 
thing with a thing hiding 
in its palm. Everyone 
laughed at Hiface for a 
While, and praised Bickback 
for his entertaining and 
funny verse. 
 
Hiface confronted Bickback 
regarding this display of 
cruelty, but Bickback sang 
the song again until Hiface 
ran home crying. 
 
The crowd acknowledged that 
Bickback was witty, but 
they still could not let 
him go to the front of the 
crowd because of those 
awful splotches. This gave 
Bickback an idea.
 
 One morning Bickback went 
to great lengths to hide
 
------------
page 8
------
his splotches. Using some 
dust,  he coated himself, 
until finally his peers 
found him beautiful. They 
quickly escorted him to the 
front of the crowd where he 
was commanded to write more 
songs about the beings in 
the back of the crowd. 
Bickback wrote songs of 
cruelty and prejudice about 
them all. All, that is, 
except for one in the back 
row. He hoped that the 
front of the crowd would 
not notice that he was 
intentionally overlooking 
his brother, Lytle, who was 
retarded and therefore, the 
most back of the whole back 
row. But, alas, someone 
noticed,
 
"Now, Bickback, let us have 
a song about Lytle!!!" the 
crowd screamed.
 
------------
page 9
------
They figured that Bickback 
was saving a song about 
Lytle until the end, since 
it would be the funniest 
and easiest to write, given 
the subject matter.
 
Bickback looked across the 
crowd at Lytle who could 
only stare at the ground. 
Lytle was pitiful in his 
brother's sight and 
Bickback hated him for not 
being perfect. 
 
Bickback walked over to his 
brother who was drooling 
and looking very stupid. 
Lytle recognized his 
brother and decided to hug 
him hard the way he always 
had. Lytle reached out and 
hugged Bickback saying, 
"Ly'le like Bicks!"
 
------------
page 10
------
The crowd roared with 
laughter at Lytle. They 
found his audacity to touch 
someone from the front row 
typical of his level of 
stupidity. Embarrassed, 
Bickback, threw Lytle to 
the ground and called him 
an animal.
 
Lytle was shocked and began 
to cry. Bickback looked 
down at his drool covered 
arms. The drool had wiped 
away some of his dust-
covering, exposing the 
horrible, hated splotches. 
Bickback openly wept face-
down on the ground. Lytle 
crawled over to him and 
held him. The crowd was 
uncomfortable, no one knew 
what to do. Just then, 
Bickback wiped his eyes and 
announced, "I have a song 
about the pitiful members
 
------------
page 11
------
of the back of the crowd!"
 
Those in back of the crowd 
figured that this would be 
the most degrading song 
yet. The front of the crowd 
cheered. Lytle drooled.
 
Bickback sang in a voice so 
beautiful that to this day 
no song has been written to 
compare. This is what he 
sang:
 
In this life I have found 
one thing.
 
It is pity incarnate  of 
which I sing.
 
You have been told about 
the back of the crowd.
 
And I repeat it plenty 
loud.
 
------------
page 12
------
That they are animals to 
be excused-
 
As hapless freaks which we 
shall use-
 
As ladder rungs for our 
speedy ascent-
 
To the front of the crowd 
where we'll invent
 
A strict system of 
attractive and not
 
On which side of the net 
will you be caught.
 
Align me please with the 
crowd's back
 
The front can for what I 
care go to hack
 
With their own standards 
based on their small group
 
------------
page 13
------
If given the choice 'tween 
accepting many or few
 
I will love the different 
and accept the whole crowd
 
I will sing of my world 
long and loud
 
In my world I say that we 
the low be tall
 
And so Brother Lytle is 
greatest of all.
 
The entire crowd fell 
silent as Bickback walked 
over to his brother and 
held him. He whispered in 
Lytle's ear, "I'm so sorry. 
I have been a big fool."
 
Lytle still just drooled. 
Some members of the crowd 
heeded Bickback's song and 
embraced the entire crowd.
 
------------
page 14
------
Others did not and made it 
their full time concern to 
re-establish the lines 
between the front and back 
of the crowd.  
 
Bickback lived a happy 
life, He wed Phyllis, a 
demure little lady, also 
from the back of the crowd. 
 
He begat Mak Mok which 
means "low is high."
 
Mak Mok begat Mak Mak.
 
Who begat Mak Mak.
 
Who begat Mak Mak.
 
Who begat Mak Mak, who 
fashioned a two-sided being 
which included both 
genders, male and female, 
one on either side.  It was 
a colossal being named
 
------------
page 15
------
Mammur who was very proud 
indeed.  It considered 
itself absolutely complete, 
lacking nothing and 
independent even from its 
creator, Mak Mak.
 
Mak Mak could not stand for 
such conceit, so he made a 
huge crowbar with which he 
pried the being into two 
parts: a male being named 
Meen and a female being 
named Mavi.  
 
It took all of Mak Mak's 
strength to pry the two 
halves apart.  And when 
Mammur finally split, it 
sent the crow bar hurtling 
out into space.  As soon as 
the two half-beings saw 
that they were no longer a 
singular whole, they 
started trying to put 
themselves back together
 
------------
page 16
------
again, and they have been 
trying to put themselves 
back together ever since.
 
Mammur (or Meen and Mavi) 
then begat Maumat.  
 
And the sons of Maumat were 
Mau Much and Marzim and 
Mah Tup and Manaak.  
 
And the sons of Mau Much 
were Mabes and Maliva and 
Magbas and Mamaar and 
Macetbas; 
 
And the sons of Mamaar were 
Mabesh and Maded.  
 
Now Maded became the father 
of Moremin; who became a 
mighty florist in his town.  
He was a mighty florist 
before Quater; therefore it 
is said, "Like Moremin, a 
mighty florist before 
Quater." 
 
------------
page 17
------
And the beginning of his 
kingdom consisted of 
DaisyWorld and Rosebud and 
TulipCrime, in the land of 
Ranish.  From that land he 
went forth into Milpitas, 
and built H'voney and Tt 
and Hoot, and Ressinsessin 
between H'voney and Tt; 
that is the great city. 
 
And Moremin became the 
father of Midul and Mimana 
and Mibahel and Mihutphan 
and Misurthap and Mihulsack 
(from which came the 
Peeons) and Mirotphack and 
MixtMath, the evil twins.
 
And Misurthap became the 
father of Modis, his first-
born, and Math Bath and the 
Quergenites and the Lolo 
Men and the Fylo Dendrites 
and the Shrub People and 
the Klay Wanters and the
 
------------
page 18
------
Neo-Ressinsessinites and 
the Briv and the Manaakite; 
and afterward the families 
of the Manaakite were 
spread abroad.  And the 
territory of the Manaakite 
extended from Nodis as you 
go toward Modoc, Delano, 
and Truckee and Chester and 
Alturas, as far as Lake 
Almanor.  So these were the 
sons of Maumat, according 
to their families, 
according to their 
languages, by their lands, 
by their nations.
 
Modis then begat Mah Min, 
who decided to wear a 
purple hood instead of a 
crown.
 
Mah Min begat Mah Nih, who 
liked hoods a lot, but 
hated his father's purple 
hood; so in rebellion,
 
------------
page 19
------
he went back to the
crown-wearing tradition of 
previous generations.  This 
gesture pleased Quater so 
much that Mah Nih was 
simply caught-up into the 
presence of Quater to live 
forever in peace with 
Father, but not before he 
was able to create a poor 
likeness of himself, May 
Nee.
 
Who begat Way Nee. 
 
Who begat Fwah Gee (the 
founder of the famous Fwah 
Ah Nation.)
 
Who begat Fep At.
Who begat Fep Pee.
 
Who begat Feh, who liked to 
sing loving songs for his 
sons. He sang by expelling 
air from between five flaps
 
------------
page 20
------
of flesh on his back. Feh 
sang this way, as a sincere 
gesture of love for his 
many sons, but the 
perpetual honking and 
flapping of his songs 
echoed up to the ears of 
Quater, who, after many 
years of tolerance, could 
finally take it no more. 
Quater smote Feh with a 
bolt of energy so intense 
that nobody ever found a 
trace of his body. Feh was 
destroyed in the prime of 
his life, but not before he 
was able to create thirteen 
sons.
 
Feh's thirteen sons were: 
Klough, Kluff, Klau, Klimt, 
Kleft, Klak, Klink, and 
five sons all of whom Feh 
named Kloppenhomwinwitz, 
because he could not think 
of another name until the
 
------------
page 21
------
birth of his last son, 
Klee.
In the Fwah Legends are the 
stories of Feh and his 
thirteen sons.  
 
Feh's favorite son was 
named Klee (meaning, "give 
me more like this one").
 
Feh often had his sons 
watch the FwaCattle herd in 
an attempt to teach them 
the value of hard work, and 
the responsibility of 
caring for the herd. 
FwaCattle had three 
genders: female; hemale; 
and threemale (threemales 
had the gender 
characteristics of all 
three genders).  When the 
females were nursing they 
exuded FwaGerkins from 
their hide.  FwaGerkins 
were the staple of the Fwah 
Ah diet. Klee was the
 
------------
page 22
------
youngest of Feh's sons, 
yet he was also the most 
responsible, and he was the 
only one who listened when 
Feh spoke to his sons the 
legends Fep Pee had told 
him of Father and Quater.
 
The other sons spent most 
of their time listening to 
their father's songs, but 
avoiding work, dreaming of 
ways to spend their 
inheritance as soon as 
their father died.  On the 
other hand, Klee spent his 
time tending the family 
herd of FwaCattle with such 
care that many thought it 
was his own herd.  It was 
the largest herd of 
FwaCattle in the nation of 
Fwah Ah, next to the 
Emperor's own herds, and 
Feh certainly appreciated 
Klee's care. 
------------
page 23
------
To show his appreciation, 
he slaughtered his finest 
FwahCalf and had the hide 
made into a fine pair of 
shorts for Klee.  Feh's 
other sons considered Klee 
an obstacle to their fun, 
so they started spending a 
portion of their time 
planning ways to get rid of 
him.  
 
When Klee was out herding 
the FwaCattle with his 
brothers, he would often 
bring back a bad report to 
his father of how the other 
sons abused the herd and 
often secretly sold 
FwaGerkins for their own 
profit.  Klee boldly told 
his brothers that while 
they were dreaming up ways 
to avoid work, he was 
dreaming of being Emperor 
of Fwah Ah.  This got on 
their nerves, and after
 
------------
page 24
------
much plotting, they did 
finally came up with a plan 
to get rid of Klee.  
 
When he came out to the 
Plains of Choppen to check 
up on them, they grabbed 
him and sewed him and his 
fine shorts to the back of 
a FwaBull.  The brothers 
then traded Klee and the 
FwaBull to some Choppenpops 
for some stewed pods.  They 
took these back to Feh and 
explained that Klee had 
been trampled in a 
FwaStampede, and that the 
pods were all that was left 
of their brother.  
 
Feh mourned for 88 years 
the death of his favorite 
son, Klee.  Meanwhile, the 
Choppenpops, never noticing 
Klee sewn to the back of 
their new FwaBull, traded
 
------------
page 25
------
it to the Emperor's 
herdsmen for a pack of Gaza 
Smokes.
 
Now, an Emperor likes a 
clean herd of FwaCattle, so 
his herdsmen scrubbed the 
FwaCattle daily.  While 
they were scrubbing the new 
FwaBull that Klee was sewn 
to, they noticed him crying 
out and begging to be 
released.  The herdsmen 
released Klee to the 
custody of Portenchipa, the 
Emperor's bodyguard. 
 
Portenchipa made Klee his 
butler, and Klee took on 
the responsibility much as 
he did with his father's 
herd of FwaCattle.  
Portenchipa was not home 
much, what with all the 
responsibilities of his own 
job, but when he was home,
 
------------
page 26
------
he did not fail to notice 
Klee's meticulous care of 
the house and household 
matters.  He actually did a 
better job than Portenchipa 
would have done himself.  
Portenchipa would have been 
jealous, but he enjoyed the 
spare time too much.  
 
In these days, each time 
Portenchipa had been out on 
one of his many trips away 
from home with the Emperor, 
his wife, Pettenpipa, 
started making eyes at Klee 
the way she should only be 
making eyes at Portenchipa.  
Klee was no fool, he knew 
what Pettenpipa was up to, 
so he warned her with the 
warning his mother always 
used. He said, "If you 
don't stop making eyes like 
that, they're going to get 
stuck that way." 
 
------------
page 27
------
Pettenpipa could not stand 
to be rejected, so she kept 
making eyes at Klee, and 
sure enough, her eyes got 
stuck.  She lied to 
Portenchipa when he came 
home that night and told 
him Klee had dressed up 
like Portenchipa just to 
get her to make eyes at 
him.  Portenchipa beat Klee 
to within a foot span of 
his life, then threw him 
into jail.  
 
But Quater did not forget 
Klee.
 
Klee once again prospered 
because of his faithful 
conduct.  
 
After the jailer beat Klee 
to within a half foot span 
of his life, he put Klee in 
charge of all the prisoners
 
------------
page 28
------
who were in the jail, so 
that whatever was done 
there, he was responsible 
for it.  The jailer did not 
supervise anything under 
Klee's charge because 
whatever Klee did always 
prospered.  
 
Klee often told the other 
prisoners the stories of 
Father and Quater that he 
had heard as a boy.  Then 
it came about after these 
things that the Emperor's 
nephew offended the Emperor 
by besting him at liver 
juggling. The Emperor was 
furious with his nephew, so 
he took away his status of 
Emperor's nephew, gave it 
to some guy who happened to 
be walking by, and put his 
nephew in confinement in 
the jail, the same place 
where Klee was imprisoned.
 
------------
page 29
------
And the jailer put Klee in 
charge of the Emperor's 
former nephew, and he took 
care of him; and he was in 
confinement for some time.  
 
Then the Emperor's ex-
nephew who was confined in 
jail, had a terrible time 
sleeping one night.  He 
tossed and turned all night 
long.  When Klee came to 
him in the morning and 
observed him, behold, he 
was down hearted.  And he 
asked the former Emperor's 
nephew who was with him in 
confinement in jail, "Why 
is your face so sad today?"
Then the former nephew said 
to him, "Are you blind?  
Just look at my hair; I've 
got Bed-head and there is 
no one to interpret it!"  
He said this because in the 
Kingdom of Fep, Bed-head
 
------------
page 30
------
interpretations are used 
to foretell the future.  
Then Klee said to him, "Do 
not interpretations belong 
to Quater?  Let me study 
your Bed-head, please."
 
Then Klee said to him, 
"This is the interpretation 
of your Bed-head: this 
afternoon the Emperor will 
restore you to the position 
of Emperor's nephew and 
have you released from 
jail.  Now, please do me a 
kindness by mentioning me 
to the Emperor, and get me 
out of this jail.  For I 
was in fact kidnapped from 
the land of Fwah Ah, and 
even here I have done 
nothing that they should 
have put me into jail.
 
That afternoon the Emperor 
declared that his nephew
 
------------
page 31
------
who was in jail should be 
released and be restored to 
the position of Emperor's 
nephew.  When the Emperor 
was asked what should be 
done with the guy to whom 
he, the Emperor, had given 
the "nephew status," the 
Emperor said to throw him 
in jail instead. The 
Emperor's nephew did not 
remember Klee, in fact he 
forgot him.  But Quater did 
not forget Klee.
 
Now it happened at the end 
of two full years, that the 
Emperor woke up one morning 
with Bed-head, and his 
spirit was troubled, so he 
sent and called for all the 
interpreters.  And the 
Emperor had them study his 
Bed-head, but there was no 
one who could interpret it 
to the Emperor.
 
------------
page 32
------
Then the Emperor's nephew 
spoke up, saying, "I would 
make mention today of my 
own offenses.  The Emperor 
was furious with me, and he 
put me in confinement in 
the jail.  And I woke up 
one morning with Bed-head.  
Now a Fwah Ah youth was 
with me there, a servant of 
the jailer, and he studied 
my Bed-head, and he did 
interpret it for me.  And 
it came about that just as 
he interpreted for me, so 
it happened; I was restored 
to my status as Emperor's 
nephew.
 
Then the Emperor sent and 
called for Klee, and they 
hurriedly brought him out 
of the jail. And when he 
had shaved himself from 
head to toe (that is how 
one was presented to the
 
------------
page 33
------
Emperor in those days) and 
changed his clothes, he 
came to the Emperor.  And 
the Emperor said to Klee, 
 
"I presume that you can see 
I have Bed-head, and no one 
here can interpret it; but 
I have heard it said about 
you, that when you study a 
Bed-head you can interpret 
it."
 
Klee then answered the 
Emperor, saying, "It is not 
in me; interpretations of 
Bed-head belong to Quater."  
 
The Emperor said to Klee, 
"Behold, study my Bed-
head."
 
Now Klee said to the 
Emperor, "A terrible 
drought is coming.
 
------------
page 34
------
"It is going to cause sky-
rocketing inflation and a 
shortage of FwaGerkins and 
FepGerkins, throw the land 
into a panic, raise prices 
and drop interest rates.  
But not before there is a 
huge surplus of FepGerkins.  
 
"Now let the Emperor look 
for a man discerning and 
wise, and set him over the 
land of Fep.  Let the 
Emperor take action to 
appoint overseers in charge 
of the land, and let him 
exact a fifth of the 
FepGerkins of the land of 
Fep in the time of surplus.  
Then let them gather all 
the FepGerkins of this 
surplus and store them up, 
and let them guard it.  And 
let the surplus become as a 
reserve for the land during 
the drought which will
 
------------
page 35
------
occur in the lands of Fwah 
Ah and Fep, so that the 
land may not perish during 
sky-rocketing inflation."
 
The Emperor said, "Wow!  
All that was in my Bed-
head?"  
 
Then he said to his 
servants, "Can you believe 
a man like this guy Klee?"  
 
So the Emperor said to 
Klee, "Since you've got all 
the answers, you shall be 
over my house, and 
according to your command 
all my people shall do 
homage; only in the throne 
I will be greater than you.  
See, I have set you over 
all the land of Fep."  
 
Then the Emperor took off 
his shorts (he had
 
------------
page 36
------
undershorts on underneath, 
for cryin' out loud!), and 
put them on Klee.  
 
And he had him ride on his 
second vehicle; and the 
servants proclaimed before 
him, "Bow the knee!" And he 
set him over all the land 
of Fep.  
 
Moreover, the Emperor said 
to Klee, "Though I am the 
Emperor, yet without your 
permission no one shall 
raise his hand or foot or 
left eyebrow in all the 
land of Fep."  And he gave 
him Gail, the daughter of a 
guy he beat in a game of 
wagon-hurling the previous 
day.  
 
Thus, Klee became prime 
minister of the neighboring 
kingdom of Fep
 
------------
page 37
------
After the period of 
surplus in Fep, Feh's land 
dried-up and the FwaHerds 
wandered away, and a 
shortage of FwaGerkins 
threw the land of Fwah Ah 
into a panic, raising 
prices and dropping 
interest rates. 
 
The Feh boys: Klough, 
Kluff, Klau, Klimt, Kleft, 
Klak, Klink, and five sons 
all of whom Feh named 
Kloppenhomwinwitz because 
Feh could not think of 
another name until the 
birth of his last son, 
Klee, were forced to trek 
out to Fep and trade their 
prized ChoppenMettle 
statues for FepGerkins, 
dreading the odious 
FepAftertaste.
 
------------
page 38
------
The Fwah Ah hate 
FepGerkins, to them they 
are "dirty."  The Fwah are 
so conditioned to despise 
FepGerkins that just 
thinking of the Fep-
Aftertaste causes a 
physical reaction.  
 
Simply seeing a FepGerkin 
has been known to cause a 
Fwah Ah to go pale and 
become woozy.  The odor of 
FepGerkins sets off the gag 
reflex.  
 
It is common to hear a Fwah 
Gentleman say, "I'd rather 
eat the refuse of my worst 
enemy than eat FepGerkins."  
To which another might 
respond, "Oh yeah?  I'd 
rather poke myself in the 
eyes with six inch rusty 
spikes than eat a lousy 
FepGerkin.
 
------------
page 39
------
To which another might 
reply, "Well, I'd rather 
eat my own head-innards, 
after they'd been sucked 
out through my eye sockets 
by a great naturally 
occurring vacuum, than eat 
FepGerkins."
 
Still, another might say, 
"I'd rather have a full-
body massage from a servant 
girl named Hela than eat 
FepGerkins."  To which 
everyone would respond, 
"Huh?"
 
If a Fwah Ah wants to 
insult another Fwah Ah, a 
popular saying is, "Your 
mother eats FepGerkins!"  
 
It is considered very 
naughty behavior for Fwah 
Ah youngsters to even talk 
about FepGerkins.  The
 
------------
page 40
------
controversial Fwah Ah 
comedian, Loody Kincaid, 
once performed an entire 
live routine of nothing but 
FepGerkin jokes; of course 
it was an adults-only 
performance and was banned 
in most towns.  
 
All the people of Fwah Ah, 
including Feh and his sons, 
realized they would have to 
choke down the FepGerkins 
(and most likely vomit a 
few times after eating the 
first three or four) or 
face certain starvation.
 
Now Klee was the ruler over 
the land; he was the one 
who sold to all the people 
of the land.  And Klee's 
brothers came and bowed 
down to him with their 
faces to the ground.  When 
Klee saw his brothers he
 
------------
page 41
------
recognized them, but he 
disguised himself to them 
and spoke to them with 
cotton in his cheeks.  
 
His brothers ordered twelve 
and a half cases of 
FepGerkins.  Then Klee gave 
orders to fill the cases 
with shorts of great value.  
And thus it was done for 
them.  So the brothers 
loaded their FwaOxen with 
the twelve and a half cases 
and departed from there.
 
At the border, Klee had his 
police stop his brothers.  
 
The head policeman said, 
"May I see your receipt, 
please?"  Klough, the 
eldest, handed over the 
receipt to the officer.  
"Says here you bought 
twelve and a half cases of
 
------------
page 42
------
FepGerkins.  Mind if we 
take a look inside these 
here cases?"
 
Klough agreed to let the 
police search the cases.  
When these were opened the 
police of course found the 
priceless shorts.  The 
brothers were stunned, to 
say the least; their hearts 
sank, and they turned 
trembling to one another, 
saying, "What's up with 
that?"
 
So the police escorted the 
sons of Feh back to Klee's 
house.  The brothers 
thought they were done-for, 
but when Klee saw them he 
invited them in and fed 
them delicious snacks 
prepared with FepGerkins, 
of course.  
While they were eating
 
------------
page 43
------
(after having thrown up at 
least twice each) Klee had 
their cases of FepGerkins 
filled with the finest Fep 
shoe laces, such as only 
the Emperor's family would 
wear.  After dinner, Klee 
released his brothers (who 
still did not recognize 
him) to go on their way 
home.
 
At the border, Klee had his 
police stop his brothers.  
The head policeman said, 
"May I see your receipt, 
please?"  Klough, the 
eldest, handed over the 
receipt to the officer.  
"Says here you bought 
twelve and a half cases of 
FepGerkins.  Mind if we 
take a look inside these 
here cases?"
 
Klough agreed to let the
 
------------
page 44
------
police search the cases.  
When these were opened the 
police of course found the 
precious shoelaces.  The 
brothers were stunned, to 
say the least; their hearts 
sank, and they turned 
trembling to one another, 
saying, "What is up with 
that?"
 
So the police escorted the 
sons of Feh back to Klee's 
house.  The brothers 
thought they were done for, 
but when Klee saw them he 
invited them in and had 
them join him in the pool.  
While they were in the 
sauna, after swimming, he 
had their cases of 
FepGerkins filled with 
priceless gauges.  
 
After they had all dried 
off, Klee released his
 
------------
page 45
------
brothers (who still did 
not recognize him) to go on 
their way home.
 
At the border, Klee had his 
police stop his brothers.  
The head policeman said, 
"May I see your receipt, 
please?"  Klough, the 
eldest, handed over the 
receipt to the officer.  
"Says here you bought 
twelve and a half cases of 
FepGerkins.  Mind if we 
take a look inside these 
here cases?"
 
Klough agreed to let the 
police search the cases.  
When these were opened the 
police of course found the 
precious gauges.  The 
brothers were stunned, to 
say the least; their hearts 
sank, and they turned 
trembling to one another
 
------------
page 46
------
saying, "What is up with 
that?"
 
So the police escorted the 
sons of Feh back to Klee's 
house.  The brothers 
thought they were done for, 
but when Klee saw them he 
had them come in and watch 
a play performed in mime in 
his private home theater, 
then he had them spend the 
night.  While they were 
sleeping, he had their 
cases of FepGerkins filled 
with hewminallinterfatch 
(which is a lot like a 
food).  
 
In the morning, after 
breakfast, Klee released 
his brothers (who still did 
not recognize him) to go on 
their way home. 
 
------------
page 47
------
But Klau, the smartest 
brother, said, "Before we 
go, I'd like to look in 
these cases of FepGerkins."  
 
When he opened one up, of  
course he found the 
hewminallinterfatch.  He 
exclaimed, "What is up with 
that?"
 
Klee knew he had to let his 
brothers in on his little 
deception.  Klee said, "I'm 
Klee!"  And the brothers 
responded, "Who?"  
 
Then Klee took the cotton 
balls out of his cheeks and 
told them the whole story.  
He said, "It goes like 
this: 
 
When I came out to the 
Plains of Choppen to check 
up on you, you grabbed me
 
------------
page 48
------
and sewed me and my fine 
shorts to the back of a 
FwaBull.  Then you traded 
me and the FwaBull to some 
Choppenpops for some stewed 
pods...  
 
Klee's brothers went back 
to Fwah Ah and returned to 
Fep with their father, Feh, 
who lived there for only a 
few years until Quater 
eventually smote him with a 
bolt of energy.  
 
In all, the Feh family 
lived in Fep 410 years.
 
Klee, having become ruler 
of all the land of Fep, was 
compelled by his people to 
change his name to Fay Nee, 
which means, "Most of which 
still do not agree."
 
Fay Nee begat Fay Nee
 
------------
page 49
------
Who begat Wah Nee.
 
Who begat Acker, who looked 
nothing like his father, 
Wah Nee, but nonetheless, 
managed to create Ehp.
 
Like many generations 
before him,  Acker sang to 
Ehp every night over his 
crib using the flaps in his 
back, in the tradition of 
Feh.  Acker showed all of 
the love a good parent 
should show his offspring.  
He often stared into Ehp's 
face for hours until his 
eyes grew dry and tired.  
Ehp was full of kindness 
and generosity, taught by 
Acker and likely nurtured 
by his grandfather, Wah 
Nee.
 
One day, while Ehp and his 
Grandfather were on a long
 
------------
page 50
------
trip to the Boneyard, Wah 
Nee grew ill.  Wah Nee 
asked Ehp to stay with him 
until he returned home to 
Father, for he was afraid.  
Ehp daubed Wah Nee's brow 
with a cool cloth given to 
him by Acker.  Quater 
opened the sky and let Wah 
Nee enter.  This was the 
first time Ehp had seen 
Quater who was far more 
marvelous than the legends 
told.
 
Ehp grew to be a strong and 
handsome being, much closer 
in likeness to Bertbert 
than any generation before 
him.  
 
Ehp became a mighty leader 
of other beings who saw 
that he was in favor with 
Quater.  
 
------------
page 51
------
Just as everybody thought 
that the whole "each-
generation-gets-worse" 
thing had finally turned 
around, Ehp's own creation 
came out looking like a 
pile of something badly 
burned, so he named it, 
"Uh Uh."
 
Uh Uh was not alive, so it 
could not begat anything
 
------------------------------
pages total: 51
