pages total: 44
------------------------------
------------
page 1
------
Arven is a sleek and fast 
being who created thousands 
of beings from the first 
moment he was given a 
crown. Besides his crown, 
there is an aerodynamic fin 
off the back of his head 
because he is so fast.  
 
His style of creating is 
fast: get in, create, get 
out.  He does not keep 
account of the worlds he 
creates nor the beings he 
creates to inhabit them.  
Quater made Arven quiet, 
serious, lean and 
efficient.  Arven has 
spoken only once to some of 
the beings he has created.  
 
Quater wanted to make a 
being who would fill up the 
rest of creation with more 
worlds and planets and 
beings.  Arven does not
 
------------
page 2
------
even take the time to 
create beings who will be 
creators themselves.  Arven 
now has seven worlds that 
his beings inhabit:
 
NORDO is a world consisting 
of a group of seven 
planets, each with a 
civilization of its own.  
The inhabitants of each 
planet have a distinct 
mythology with the common 
element of the seven 
planets fighting amongst 
each other.  But they never 
do in reality.  This makes 
the various races of the 
seven planets fear each 
other intensely, though 
there is no real need to 
do so. 
 
The seven planets are:
 
Idsnak - inhabited by the 
Skullmonkeys. 
   
------------
page 3
------
Skullmonkeys look like 
monkeys with skulls for 
heads.  Skullmonkeys spend 
the whole day chasing each 
other in a nervous, hyper-
active way.  While 
Skullmonkeys would love to 
scare the young of other 
civilizations, they can 
not, for other worlds are 
not accessible to them.  
For this reason, 
transportation research is 
a primary concern of the 
smarter Skullmonkeys.  
Alpha Jaw, the leader of 
the Kingdom of the 
Skullmonkeys hoped to have 
a spaceship of some kind 
built to fly to planets 
full of youth to scare.
 
One day while Alpha Jaw 
busied himself with 
detailed plans of a great
 
------------
page 4
------
ramp to launch a great 
rocket, his assistant Hairy 
Jo climbed down the great 
fort and decided to rest at 
the watering hole. Hairy Jo 
drank deeply from the pure 
waters and looked at 
himself in the still 
reflection. He poked his 
finger in his ovicular 
foramen and wondered what 
it would be like to have 
flesh on his head. 
 
"I am very ugly." thought 
Hairy Jo. 
 
This was an odd thought 
since most Skullmonkeys 
have no concern for 
appearances. 
 
"For this reason I will 
cast myself into the water, 
and live no more." he said, 
then jumped.
 
------------
page 5
------
His body made a loud 
splash and he felt the cool 
water touch every part of 
his body. His hair grew 
deeply saturated with water 
until all of the air 
bubbles wriggled their way 
up to the surface. Hairy Jo 
exhaled and sank even 
deeper, far deeper perhaps, 
than any other Skullmonkey 
had ever gone before. 
Weightless, he refused to 
move or struggle. Dark 
waters surrounded him and 
he thought about his youth. 
Hairy Jo remembered a 
particularly unpleasant day 
many years before when he 
was just a lad-Skullmonkey 
receiving his lesson from 
an elder named Low Jaw.
 
"Many are the hairs on our 
backs," said Low Jaw, " and 
likewise are the number of
 
------------
page 6
------
Skullmonkeys in this 
world."
 
Hairy Jo looked up to Low 
Jaw as a father figure.  
For weeks, Hairy Jo 
followed every move Low Jaw 
made. If Low Jaw went into 
the forest to forage for 
nuts and grubs so went 
Hairy Jo. If Low Jaw tended 
to his garden, so did 
Hairy Jo. 
 
One especially warm and 
beautiful day Hairy Jo was 
on his way to Low Jaw's 
cave when he saw a great 
crowd gathered around the 
entrance. Many Skullmonkeys 
were howling to show their 
mournful state. Low Jaw's 
wife was the gloomiest of 
all... she was like a 
brittle fall leaf blown 
into a corner. Hairy Jo
 
------------
page 7
------
pushed his way to the 
front of the crowd 
demanding to see his 
mentor. Low Jaw gently 
swung by his neck, hung 
from a braided piece of 
cloth his two children had 
made. His children were the 
first to find him in this 
state. The peculiar thing 
that Hairy Jo recalled, was 
that he had shaved himself 
completely naked.
 
Arnod - inhabited by the 
Rrs.  Rrs observe other 
planets and civilizations 
hoping one day to apply all 
that the have learned to 
their own civilization.  
This is not likely, 
however, since they find 
comfort in research and are 
terrified of application.  
Rrs are extremely advanced 
in the arts of the mind
 
------------
page 8
------
which they use to read 
other beings minds.  Every 
other generation in the Rrs 
lifeline produces an Omega 
Rr.  Omega Rrs have such 
superior mind control that 
they can use their minds to 
form physical doorways 
between worlds.  This has 
been outlawed by Arven, and 
only because Quater brought 
this to his attention.  But 
the Omega Rrs were not 
stopped until after they 
had moved a few Ynts, 
Skullmonkeys, and even Rrs 
to other planets.
 
Ba'ak - inhabited by Half-
Skullmonkeys, who are half 
Blue Ynt.  Called "Blue -
Ynt-Skullmonkeys" these 
beings look just like White 
Ynts since the mating of a 
Skullmonkey with a Blue Ynt 
causes a loss of
 
------------
page 9
------
pigmentation in the 
offspring resulting in a 
Blue Ynt that appears to be 
white.  There is no other 
visual effect on the 
offspring from the 
Skullmonkeys, though their 
behavior is more like that 
of a Skullmonkey than the 
community-building Blue 
Ynts.
 
Guhrli - inhabited by 
Proto-Skullmonkeys.  These 
pitiful beings have to bury 
themselves up to their 
necks every night in the 
rich Guhrli soil to keep 
from dying of dehydration.  
They can only eat HoBread, 
which can only be made by 
grinding up the largest Wx 
and adding them to HoBatter 
before it rises.  (Arven 
corrected all of these 
limitations in the final
 
------------
page 10
------
design of Skullmonkeys.)  
Guhrli has a monthly orbit 
that floats so close to Wx 
that the Proto-Skullmonkeys 
can harvest the plumpest Wx 
for their HoBread.  Due to 
the Proto-Skullmonkey's tie 
to the soil of Guhrli every 
evening, colonizing Wx with 
Proto-Skullmonkeys is not 
possible.
 
Wx - inhabited by Wx.  Wx 
are fat, furry and 
yellowish in color.  Wx 
reproduce asexually and 
often, which would create 
an overcrowding problem if 
they were not harvested 
each month by the Proto-
Skullmonkeys.
 
Hapsborg - inhabited by one 
Rr and one Skullmonkey who 
became best friends.  The 
Rr's name is Rrheostan and
 
------------
page 11
------
the Skullmonkey's name is 
Mazzimoast. Their first 
year on Hapsborg was one of 
confused emotions.  Because 
of the myth of the seven 
planets fighting amongst 
each other, Mazzimoast and 
Rrheostan feared each 
other, but they were lonely 
and longed for 
companionship also.  
Rrheostan, behaving in 
perfect Rr fashion, wanted 
to study Mazzimoast and all 
of his habits.  He spent a 
lot of time following the 
Skullmonkey's tracks to see 
where he went, examining 
his feces to see what he 
ate, and climbing up trees 
to see where he lived..  
They found that helping 
each other was their only 
chance at happiness and 
survival.  While they were 
extremely productive during
 
------------
page 12
------
the first hundred years 
of friendship, they now 
just sit in front of their 
houses swapping grossly 
exaggerated stories of 
their first year together.
 
Yanko - inhabited by the 
followers of Mai Kea.  Mai 
Kea was said to live on 
Hapsborg, though in reality 
he did not exist at all by 
any known records.  
Yankites (beings of Yanko) 
find pleasure in making 
intricate art works for Mai 
Kea.  Perhaps the greatest 
works of art known to 
Quater are made in Yanko.  
It is for this reason that 
no one has the heart to 
tell the Yankites that Mai 
Kea does not exist.
 
------------
page 13
------
The other six worlds that 
Arven made:
 
PLASMO is an enormous cloud 
of beings, each too small 
to be seen by the naked 
eye.  Rrs have projected 
their minds there.
 
ALFATIC is the world of the 
R'Goss.  Each successive 
generation is born bigger 
than the previous.  As the 
R'Goss of each generation 
get into their senior 
years, you hear them making 
statements like, "These 
punks think they're so 
big!" or, "When I was your 
age, we had to stand on a 
chair to get the fondue pot 
down from the top kitchen 
cabinet."
 
The houses of their 
ancestors are not usable
 
------------
page 14
------
for the newer generations; 
they just can not fit 
through the front doors.
 
ALPA FAMALPA is a world 
where the adults are ruled 
by their children.  The 
children send the parents 
on time-consuming, 
frivolous tasks that keep 
the parents from doing 
anything but what the 
children desire.  One might 
think that a society like 
this would collapse in 
anarchy.  But to satisfy 
each whim of their 
children, the Alparense (or 
parents) constantly develop 
new technologies.  For 
instance, when a child, 
looking up at the evening 
sky, said, "I want to see 
what that white dot is, up 
there!" and threw a fit, 
his Alparense worked night
 
------------
page 15
------
and day till they invented 
a telescope.  When other 
children saw it  they all 
wanted one, so a telescope 
factory was built.  In 
similar ways, advances are 
made throughout Alpa 
Famalpa.
 
Alpa Famalpa families have 
from one to three children, 
rarely more.  One child, 
being childish, may say, 
"Yes!" when she is asked if 
she wants a baby brother or 
sister.  She does not have 
the ability to realize that 
she will have to share 
command of the Alparense 
with her sibling, since the 
Alparense must be obedient 
to all their children.  
That child will not be 
fooled again if she is 
asked a second time after 
the birth of her sibling. 
 
------------
page 16
------
Later, when the new baby 
is old enough to answer, 
the Alparense may be able 
to ask him while the older 
sister is not around (and 
if she has not already 
warned the boy of the 
danger of a third sibling) 
if he wants a baby brother.  
If a third child is born 
into the family, the older 
two will rarely ever let 
the Alparense out of their 
sight; this prevents the 
Alparense from getting the 
chance to ask the youngest 
if he or she wants a baby 
sister or brother.
 
As a favor to Homen, Arven 
made the world FLIMBY for 
the White Ynts.  Most of 
the White Ynts were taken 
by Arven so the Blue Ynts 
could live in peace once 
again.  The White Ynts
 
------------
page 17
------
depended on the hard-
working, resourceful Blue 
Ynts for survival, since 
the White Ynts are 
shiftless, no-good bums.  
To survive being in a world 
with no Blue Ynts, the 
smarter White Ynts (called 
"Rogling") conned the not-
so-smart White Ynts (called 
"Habling") into 
"converting" into Blue 
Ynts.  Here are some tales 
of  the Rogling conning the 
Habling into being Blue 
Ynts:
 
One night, Papto, tired of 
wandering in the woods of 
Flimby, saw the light from 
a window of a treecutter's 
cottage.  Papto did not 
have his own cottage 
because he was to lazy to 
build one.  He thought to 
go to the cottage to see if
 
------------
page 18
------
the Ynts inside would let 
him stay, so he went to the 
door and knocked.
 
The treecutter's wife 
opened the door and said, 
"Shoo!  I don't let anyone 
in while my husband is not 
in the house!  Go away, 
already!"  And she slammed 
the door in his face.
 
Papto was hungry, too, and 
he had smelled the dinner 
cooking in the cottage 
while the door was open.  
He looked around for 
something to eat and saw a 
discarded Gflutoburger box 
on the roof of the cottage.  
He hoped there might be a 
Gflutoburger still in the 
box, but if not, even 
licking the Gflutoburger 
sauce from the bottom of 
the box would be delicious.
 
------------
page 19
------
After quietly making his 
way onto the roof, Papto 
found a hole in it through 
which he could spy on the 
wife of the treecutter.  
Obviously the treecutter 
was too lazy to fix the 
hole.  When he peaked 
through the hole, Papto saw 
a beautiful table set out 
with a savory junk roast, 
klootifish, and wine.  The 
treecutter's wife and the 
county tree censor were 
seated at the table ready 
to dine.
 
Now Papto heard the 
treecutter lumbering home 
just then, and so did Mrs. 
treecutter.  The treecutter 
was as nice a guy as you 
would want to meet, but his 
one quirk was that the mere 
sight of a county tree 
censor put him into a fit
 
------------
page 20
------
of rage.  And that was why 
the censor was paying a 
neighborly visit to the 
wife, because he knew that 
the treecutter was out; and 
the good woman would 
therefore fix up the best 
vittles she had.  As Papto 
watched through the hole, 
she threw everything on the 
table into cupboards and 
drawers and hid the censor 
in a trunk she used as a 
coffee table.
 
"What are you doing on my 
roof?" the treecutter asked 
Papto.  "You'd better come 
in and eat dinner with me 
and stay in the spare 
room."
 
Papto brought the 
Gflutoburger box in with 
him, but kept it out of 
sight.  The wife acted very
 
------------
page 21
------
glad to see them both and 
set the table and gave them 
each a big bowl of Toriweet 
(a gray, tasteless paste).  
Papto's mouth watered 
thinking about the junk 
roast, klootifish, and the 
other delicacies he had 
seen.  He brought his 
Gflutoburger box up to his 
ear and opened and closed 
it a few times.
 
"What have you got there?" 
asked the treecutter.
 
"Oh, that's my 
Gflutospirit-guide," 
answered Papto.  "He says 
don't eat this Toriweet, 
eat the junk roast, 
klootifish and other things 
he had a Gflutospirit hide 
in the cupboards just now."
"Super!" exclaimed the 
treecutter, who jumped up
 
------------
page 22
------
and found all the 
wonderful food which his 
wife had hidden there, but 
which he thought the 
Gflutospirit had brought 
forth.  The wife of the 
treecutter dared not say a 
word, but put all the food 
on the table.  Now Papto 
put his box up to his ear 
again and opened and 
closed it. 
 
"What's he say now?" asked 
the treecutter.
 
"He says don't forget the 
wine behind you in that 
drawer."
 
So Papto and the treecutter 
enjoyed the wine also.  The 
treecutter wanted to see 
the Gflutospirit this guide 
used to provide these 
wonderful things.
 
------------
page 23
------
"Can the guide conjure the 
Gflutospirit here for us to 
see?"  asked the 
treecutter.  "I wouldn't be 
troubled about looking at 
him; now that we finished 
off that wine I'm kind of 
loopy!"
 
"But of course!"  said 
Papto.  "This guide does 
whatever I tell it to do, 
don't you?"  Here he nodded 
at the Gflutoburger box in 
his hand.  "He says 'Yes.'  
But the Gflutospirit is 
very ugly; we might puke if 
we were to look upon it so 
soon after eating."
 
"So who's afraid of a 
little barf?  What will he 
look like?"
 
"Well, you see, he'll look
 
------------
page 24
------
just like a  county tree 
censor."
 
"Gah!  That is ugly!  I 
must tell you, I go into 
fits of rage when I see a 
county tree censor; but 
I'll be okay knowing that 
it's really a 
Gflutospirit."
 
So Papto opened the box and 
whispered into it, then he 
put it up to his ear.
 
"Very well." said Papto.  
"He's in the trunk you use 
as a coffee table.  We may 
go look at it now, but 
don't let it out of the 
trunk!"
 
"Help me hold the lid." 
said the lumberjack.  And 
they all went over to the 
trunk where the wife had
 
------------
page 25
------
hidden the county tree 
censor.  They opened the 
lid and peeked in; then the 
treecutter slammed the lid 
closed.
 
"Wow!  He is ugly! Yuck!"
 
After that, they agreed 
they needed another drink.  
They opened another drawer 
and found another bottle of 
wine.
 
Much later, the treecutter 
said, "You must sell me the 
Gflutospirit-guide in the 
box.  Ask as much as you 
want.  I'll pay anything."
 
"No, I could never do 
that," said Papto, "just 
imagine what I can use him 
for!"
 
"Oh, I do so want that
 
------------
page 26
------
Gflutospirit-guide so 
much!  Oh, please, please, 
please, please, please, 
oh please, pleeese, oh please, 
please, please, please, oh 
oh,please, oh please, please, 
please, please, please, 
puh-leeease, please, oh please, 
please, oh please, please!" 
cried the treecutter; and 
he kept on begging.
 
"Well," said Papto, at 
last, "if you promise that 
you and your wife will 
pretend to be Blue Ynts for 
the next three years for 
me, then I will give you 
this Gflutoburger box."
 
"It's a deal!" said the 
treecutter.  "But you must 
take that trunk with that 
Gflutospirit that looks 
like a county tree censor
 
------------
page 27
------
away with you; it gives me 
the creeps!"
 
When Papto left in the 
morning, he took the trunk.  
On his way, on the other 
side of the woods, was a 
very deep river.  The water 
rushed by under the bridge 
he was crossing and the 
river thundered in the 
quiet of the forest.
 
"Whew!" said Papto. "I'm 
tired!  This trunk feels 
like it's full of my 
brother's weights.  I think 
I may as well throw it in 
the river, and if it floats 
home to me, great; if not, 
no big deal."
 
Then he lifted one end of 
the trunk, just a little.
"No!" cried the censor from
 
------------
page 28
------
within the trunk, "let me 
out first!"
 
"Aaaaaah!" screamed Papto, 
pretending to be 
frightened, "The 
Gflutospirit is still in 
there!  I'd better throw 
him in fast, so he'll 
drown!"
 
"No, no, no!" exclaimed the 
censor.  "I'll be a Blue 
Ynt for you for three years 
if you let me out."
 
"I could do that!" said 
Papto.  And for the next 
three years he did not lift 
a finger.
 
Not much is known about 
ELBEETO, except that it is 
a twin of Flimby, and that 
it lies on the far side of 
a huge gulf of yellow
 
------------
page 29
------
plasma.  Space currents 
momentarily blow the yellow 
plasma away, revealing 
Elbeeto to the patient 
observer. 
 
SUMP is a world consisting 
of a group of hollow 
planets that exist within 
each other.  Including:
Outer Junn - inhabited by 
Wx, about a million times 
as many as Wx itself.  
Because there are no Proto-
Skullmonkeys to harvest 
them every month, about one 
half of the population is 
crushed to death by their 
collective weight.
 
Mezzo Abbernun - inhabited 
by Abbers.  Abbers suspect 
that there is a world above 
their Outer Junn Floor Sky, 
because of the occasional
 
------------
page 30
------
Wx carcass oozing through 
a crack or hole, but this 
is an unproved theory to 
them.  Some Abbers have 
drilled their way through 
the Mezzo Abbernun to find 
Inner Abbernun.  These 
travelers, however, never 
returned to the surface to 
tell what they found. This 
has prevented most Abbers 
from attempting the journey 
but a few hundred have. 
 
Abbers fall into three 
castes. The first is the 
intellectual, inquisitive 
caste called the Frankites.  
The second is the warring 
Abbers called the Dazzites.  
The third is the religious 
caste called the Ee's.  The 
Frankites spend their time 
in pursuit of knowledge 
about the other worlds of 
Sump: Outer Junn and Inner
 
------------
page 31
------
Abbernun.  The Frankites 
are not respected by either 
the Dazzites or the Ee's. 
The Ee's accuse the 
Frankites of messing with 
their religious 
mythologies.  The Dazzites 
think the Frankites are a 
bunch of sissies.  The 
Frankites developed the 
theory of a world above 
their Outer Junn Floor Sky 
because of the occasional 
Wx carcass oozing down 
through a crack or hole.  
The Abbers have no way of 
reaching the Floor Sky, but 
a drop or two of the 
disgusting, rotting flesh 
of the Wx's from Outer Junn 
sometimes trickles down.  
The Frankites have 
developed a science out of 
the study of stuff that 
falls from the sky.  They 
have formed theories of
 
------------
page 32
------
what the world above must 
be like.  Theories of a 
world within theirs are 
called the "Crankules Inner 
Abbernun Conjecture" after 
the Frankite named 
Crankules who is said to be 
the first Abber to say, "I 
wonder if there's a world 
within our world?"  The 
Frankites have lead 
expeditions into caves, 
crevices and holes  in the 
ground.  Most expeditions 
run into dead-ends; the 
ones that do not have never 
come back to report what 
they found.  The Ee's say 
this just confirms what 
they have known all along, 
that Inner Abbernun houses 
a Door to the Other Side.  
Although a few Frankites 
say there are no doors, 
most agree that there may 
be something like a door
 
------------
page 33
------
somewhere in the universe.  
The Dazzites consider the 
Frankites research into 
doors their only useful 
function in society.
 
The Ee's spend their time 
in pursuit of the knowledge 
of mythologies.  Some Ee's 
follow Father; some Ee's 
follow Quater; some Ee's 
follow Arven.  Some follow 
Father and Quater; some 
follow Quater and Arven; 
some follow Father and 
Arven.  Some Ee's follow 
all three together: Father, 
Quater and Arven.
 
Most Dazzites want nothing 
to do with a Door to the 
Other Side.  They would be 
very interested, though, if 
someone found a door to 
another world that they 
could conquer.
 
------------
page 34
------
Abberwabbee is the notable 
high priest of the Ee's.  
Kapangdazz, chief warrior 
of the Dazzites is plotting 
to assassinate him due to 
Abberwabbee's doctrine of 
peace which threatens the 
Dazzite warrior lifestyle.
 
Inner Abbernun - which is 
said to house a door to the 
other side.  All of the 
Abber cultures have a 
mythology regarding the 
door and a special name 
that identifies that 
mythology.  Here are some 
of the more popular 
mythologies:
 
Lipocarrutherrs - The door 
is all around us.  This is 
the mythology of the door 
amongst a small group of 
Frankites, called the 
Ricks.  They believe that
 
------------
page 35
------
the door is just a natural 
consequence of the 
evolution of all living 
things.  They are fond of 
going out to the Eubendy 
forests and hugging the 
Eubendy trees.  Ricks 
desire to become one with 
nature, then, they believe, 
they will be able see the 
way to the door.  Until you 
become one with nature, 
they say, you cannot hope 
to see as nature sees.  
And, according to the 
Ricks, nature sees all.
 
Winthrrop Ballyhoo - We 
have already gone through 
the door.  This is one of 
many mythologies found 
amongst groups within the 
Ees.  This group within the 
Ees calls itself the 
Marffees.  They believe 
whole-heartedly that there
 
------------
page 36
------
is a door, but they also 
believe that all have 
passed through the door in 
one instant sometime in the 
past.  The Marffees say 
that since we are all on 
the other side of the door, 
there is no need to look 
for it.
 
Shempocalrrisian - Each of 
us has a door within 
himself/herself.  This is 
also a mythology from a 
group within the Ees, call 
the Shempocalrrisianites.  
It is said that 
Shempocalrrisian found the 
door, but did not go 
through it.  Instead, he 
ground the door to a fine 
dust then put the dust into 
the drinking water of Mezzo 
Abbernun.  Since that day, 
the first time an Abber 
takes a drink of water,
 
------------
page 37
------
they are said to have a 
door to the other side 
within them.  The 
Shempocalrrisianites hold a 
water-drinking -rite for 
their babies.
 
Rrmbek - We can find the 
door only when we have 
tallied up enough good 
deeds.  Strangely enough, 
this is not another 
mythology from amongst the 
Ees, instead it comes from 
the Frankites.  Those of 
the Frankites that believe 
this myth are pseudo-
scientific and perpetuate 
the myth started hundreds 
of years ago by Jabberph.  
Jabberph was insane, but he 
was able to string together 
sentences full of 
scientific and theological 
sounding ideas.  Those who 
did not know better and did
 
------------
page 38
------
not want to take the time 
to research Jabberph claims 
would say, "Hear, hear!" 
when he came to their 
street corner to speak.  
Jabberph, although enrolled 
in the Frankite schools, 
attended class only 
occasionally.  He spent 
most of his time digging 
for imaginary buried 
treasure or counterfeiting 
money; with the latter he 
would pay classmates to do 
his homework for him.  It 
was on what was to be the 
last of his treasure hunts 
that Jabberph said he found 
the scroll of Rrmbek.
 
Jabberph said that the 
scroll of Rrmbek explained 
that if one does enough 
good deeds one will be 
given a pair of X-ray 
glasses with which the door
 
------------
page 39
------
can be found.  Jabberph 
said that good followers of 
Rrmbek who have disappeared 
are the only proof one 
needs to believe the 
authenticity of the scrolls 
(which, by the way, no one 
has ever seen).  The fact 
that they disappeared, 
Jabberph writes, shows that 
they got their glasses and 
went straight to the door.  
No one has yet been found 
who can name a missing 
follower of Rrmbek.
 
Prrokoschmoko - Life 
stinks, and then you fall 
through the door; maybe. 
This mythology has a small 
support amongst all three 
castes of Abber.
 
Klarrczmun - A very good 
being made the door long 
ago and only told one good
 
------------
page 40
------
Abber how to find it.  
Before he found it, though, 
he told one other good 
Abber and thus the 
knowledge of the door has 
been passed down through 
the generations.  It is 
said that somehow knowledge 
of the door's existence 
became public, now anyone 
can find the door, if one 
goes about it the right 
way.  To do so, one must 
attach oneself  to a good 
and righteous person to get 
taken through the door when 
the righteous person goes 
through.  This mythology 
also has a small support 
amongst all three castes of 
Abber.  They are called 
Klarrczmun by other Abbers.  
The key here, it is 
believed, is to staple 
yourself to a righteous 
Abber so that when he does
 
------------
page 41
------
find the door and go 
through, you will go with 
him.  This myth states that 
an Abber named Klabberz, 
who lived next door to 
Toogabberg, thought 
Toogabberg knew how to find 
the door.  Toogabberg was a 
very nice guy, but Klabberz 
thought he was the nicest 
guy there ever was.  
Klabberz figured that if 
anybody had a chance of 
finding the door it would 
be Toogabberg.  So Klabberz 
got a very powerful stapler 
and with it attached 
himself to Toogabberg.  It 
is said that when 
Toogabberg found the door 
and went through, Klabberz 
went through, too. 
Therefore, Abbers who 
believe this myth are 
always looking for someone 
who is considered righteous
 
------------
page 42
------
to whom they can staple 
themselves.  If a 
Klarrczmun is seen trying 
to staple himself to 
another Abber by other 
Klarrczmuns, they also will 
try to attach themselves.  
Usually, friends will help 
get a Klarrczmun off the 
nice Abber, but if an Abber 
is tackled by several 
Klarrczmun, the Dazzite 
police are summoned to 
remove them.
 
Burrntoowie - Arven made 
the door and immediately 
declared that none shall 
pass through it upon 
penalty of death.  He only 
told anyone about it to 
taunt them with its 
inaccessibility.
 
Flimperrty - The door was 
brought to Inner-Abbernun
 
------------
page 43
------
by Merlopax the 
Kleptomaniac.  There are 
many legends of Merlopax; 
he is a folk hero among the 
lazy Abbers who do not want 
to be involved in any of 
the castes.  In this tale, 
Merlopax left Mezzo 
Abbernun and stole the Door 
to the Other Side and 
brought it back to Mezzo 
Abbernun only to lose it to 
Merlopaxpax the Con-man.
 
Appilow Pinsmarr - The door 
is a gift from Father.  
There is nothing anyone can 
do to find the gift of the 
door, Father himself must 
show it to you.  And then 
you must decide if you are 
going to go through the 
door
 
------------
page 44
------
Innagorradavida - One 
finds the door during the 
heat of battle, dying a 
victorious death.  This is 
the favorite door mythology 
among the Dazzites.
 
Jyan't Rroeb't - The 
doorway is all that is real 
and all of Abbernun is but 
a dream.
 
Tingleyspald - The doorway 
was built by a giant 
turtle. 
 
Rroy Al - Only 3,667 Abbers 
are allowed through the 
door
 
------------------------------
pages total: 44
