pages total: 1
------------------------------
------------
page 1
------
Quater is the only being 
Father has ever made.  He 
has been a good friend of 
Father's for many eons.  
Quater is the official go-
between for all beings and 
Father.  Since he himself 
is a being made by Father, 
not much can be learned 
about Father by looking at 
Quater.  But, if anything 
is known to anyone about 
Father, Quater revealed it.  
Quater forged seven crowns 
for seven beings he created 
for Father to pour his 
approval on.  Quater left 
the comfort of Father's 
presence to pioneer a new 
world where his beings 
could make their own place 
in order to empathize with 
Quater.
 
------------------------------
pages total: 1
