pages total: 38
------------------------------
------------
page 1
------
Quater made a king named 
Ottoborg, designed to be 
happy and full of joy all 
day.  
 
Robots were a subject that 
Ottoborg had done a lot of 
research on, so it was only 
natural that he made three 
robots to help him make 
seven little houses.  The 
robots names were Appie, 
Togor, and Bil.  Appie was 
good at digging.  Bil was 
good at building and Togor 
was good at painting; that 
is why it is said today 
that if anyone is a good 
painter, he is "Togor."  
 
In a very careless way, 
Ottoborg made seven boys to 
live in his new houses.  
The boys names were Hypen 
Nupen, Petri Alfonzo, 
Willie Trombone, Aloh Al,
 
------------
page 2
------
Derradious Hapsicom (who's 
nickname was Creeker), 
Hondo and Ed.  
 
Ottoborg's sons were easily 
identified by the loop 
formed on the top of each 
of their heads.  Sometimes 
when they walked along they 
would hook their head-hoops 
on branches and hang there 
for days.  Petri was so 
tired of getting his head 
hooked onto things that he 
cut his own head off, which 
proved to be fatal.  
 
Ottoborg had forgotten to 
hold his world together 
with gravity, so one day 
his world fell apart in 
chunks and his seven sons 
and three robots floated 
aimlessly across creation.  
 
Hypen's chunk of land got
 
------------
page 3
------
caught in the tail of the 
comet Pyrageorge (named 
Pyrageorge because it 
decreased in size during 
each orbit). The tail of 
Pyrageorge was full of 
seeds because the comet 
once passed through the 
atmosphere of the planet 
Berpie.  
 
Hypen cultivated his chunk 
so that he could grow 
flowers.  He loved flowers 
and how happy and festive 
they can make a place.  
Often, he would make a 
wreath of some of the 
flowers to decorate the 
loop in his head. Since he 
was the only one of his 
brothers with a nose, it 
seemed especially fitting 
that this is where Hypen 
Nupen's chunk of land 
should be.  He grew an
 
------------
page 4
------
extraordinary amount of 
flowers, but after a few 
years it was not enough to 
satisfy his growing craving 
for flowers.  His deepest, 
burning desire was to be 
King of Flowers, to have no 
rival in growing flowers.  
He actually did not know of 
anyone else who was growing 
flowers, but his unfettered 
imagination went wild and 
he thought that there must 
be others who were 
cultivating and growing 
huge fields of flowers on 
the many planets and worlds 
he passed.
 
Year after year Hypen 
worked the soil of his 
chunk of land to try and 
get it to produce more and 
more flowers.  He developed 
fertilizers and plant 
foods.  He grew nothing but
 
------------
page 5
------
flowers, though there were 
plenty of other types of 
seeds he could have 
planted.  If he did notice 
some other type of plant 
growing amongst his 
flowers, he violently 
ripped it from the ground, 
cursing it and tearing it 
to shreds then throwing it 
onto his compost pile.  It 
was so upsetting to him 
that he would have to lie 
down for a nap afterwards.  
But no matter how many 
flowers the land produced, 
it was never enough for 
Hypen.
 
It almost seemed that the 
chunk of land was 
desperately trying to 
please its obsessed master,  
straining itself  year in, 
year out, to produce more 
flowers than it had the
 
------------
page 6
------
previous season.  For many 
centuries, in fact, it did 
out-perform itself; each 
year a dozen or so more 
flowers were produced.  And 
Hypen would ask, "Is that 
all?"  Then the yield began 
to decrease.  The land was 
simply over-worked and it 
needed to rest.  Hypen 
reacted by pressing the 
land harder and harder to 
yield more.  He was 
aggravated to no end.  
 
The more he did to increase 
the yield of flowers, the 
less the land was able to 
produce.  Eventually, as 
each season went by, the 
yield decreased first 10, 
then 100 fold, and so on.  
Most of the land lay barren 
and still.  
 
If Hypen found anything
 
------------
page 7
------
other than a flower 
growing he would pull it up 
by the roots and throw it 
into the compost pile.
 
As the land grew gray and 
sterile, Hypen wasted away 
also.  The loop on the top 
of his head drooped, like a 
deflated tire. His desire 
to make his chunk of land a 
happier place with flowers 
had died.  He spent his 
last days worrying and 
hovering over the last few 
flowers that struggled 
desperately to grow to 
maturity in the dust.  He 
could not afford the time 
it took to weed the 
desolate fields, but only a 
few spindly vines grew here 
and there in the depleted 
soil anyway.  When the last 
flower died, so did Hypen 
Nupen.
 
------------
page 8
------
Willie's chunk of land 
flew off into space, with 
Willie still inside his 
little red-roofed house. 
Ottoborg never saw Willie 
again. 
 
What Ottoborg did not know 
(which this wall does) was 
that Willie's chunk of land 
drifted into the most 
dangerous part of space. 
You see, there were these 
nasty creatures called 
Victoids that flew about 
looking for food. Victoids 
had a giant nasty mouth 
full of giant nasty fangs 
and of course the hair that 
they were covered with was 
nasty. 
 
Anyway, four Victoids 
stumbled upon poor Willie 
Trombone who was alone just 
floating through space for 
quite some time. Willie,
 
------------
page 9
------
being the friendly type, 
held out a friendly hand 
and beckoned them, "Hey, 
hairy friends!"
 
The Victoids screamed with 
glee when they saw Willie's 
yellow supple flesh. They 
figured that he was not a 
fool and that they would 
have to trick him before 
they could eat him. They 
were wrong, for Willie 
Trombone was a fool above 
all other fools and all of 
the time that they spent 
trying to trick him only 
gave the drifting giant Big 
Robot Bil enough time to 
arrive. Bil reached out 
with his mighty three arms 
and grabbed the floating 
chunk of land and hoisted 
himself up. Bil grew 
horrified as he saw his 
creator's son about to be
 
------------
page 10
------
devoured by vicious 
Victoids. 
 
That evening Willie 
Trombone dined on Victoids, 
saving their pelts to use 
as blankets on especially 
cold evenings. Willie and 
Bil became close friends 
and they enjoyed each 
other's company for a long 
time floating in space, 
until one day they saw 
something very far away... 
something like a being in 
distress.
 
Aloh Al kept a journal 
after Ottoborg's world 
broke into chunks.  Here is 
copied the only known 
surviving excerpt from that 
diary:
 
 "My chunk of land has 
whooshed through a
 
------------
page 11
------
mysterious cloud of blue 
gas.  The cloud is larger 
than some worlds that I 
have seen.  I made a spur-
of-the-moment decision to 
jump off of the chunk and 
onto the gas.  There is 
such a clutter of junk on 
the outer surface of the 
blue gas that it is 
virtually solid, yet kind 
of springy-sproingy.  
 
Wow! Am I tired!  I think I 
will lay myself down to 
take a snooze on the junk 
that clutters the surface 
of this blue gas for I have 
not slept since before 
Ottoborg's world fell 
apart.
 
I do not know how long I 
was sleeping, but I woke up 
because I felt something 
tiny and creepy crawling on
 
------------
page 12
------
my knee!  I reached down 
and swatted it with my 
hand; there was just a 
yellow spot of goop when I 
brought my hand up to see 
what kind of bug it was.  
Then I heard the weirdest 
whiney-moany noise I have 
ever heard.  I looked up 
and around and behind me, 
but I did not see anything.  
Then I looked down on the 
ground.  I found myself 
surrounded by very little 
beings; some were laying 
down, I guess they must 
have fainted after seeing 
one of their own squashed 
by my big hand.  I knew 
they were not bugs then 
because they were all 
staring at me, and because 
they were not all crawling 
over me, or biting me, or 
injecting their eggs under 
my skin to incubate there 
and hatch later.
 
------------
page 13
------
These are very teeny-tiny 
beings, indeed; when I 
compare them to myself, the 
tallest is only as big as 
my thumb.  Each tiny being 
has a great head in 
comparison to the rest of 
its body.  In fact, the 
head takes up as much space 
as the body.  The two 
remarkable features of the 
head are the size of the 
head compared to the little 
body, and its almost 
perfect roundness; it is 
like a melon on a sliver!  
 
Each being's head has a 
mouth, but other than that, 
there is only one other 
facial feature: their 
globe-heads are divided 
into an upper and lower 
hemisphere by dark line at 
the equator.  I perceived 
this dark line to be (all
 
------------
page 14
------
in one) the eyes, ears and 
nose of these beings, since 
they employed them much in 
their observation of myself 
and, with their mouths 
also, in communication with 
each other.
 
I was very hungry, as I had 
traveled on my chunk of 
land for forty days and 
forty nights, or something 
like that.  My first 
thought was to eat a 
handful of the little 
beings, but they held up 
their hands to ward me off 
and wailed in high-pitched 
whiney shrieks.  
 
The little beings 
understood that I was 
famished from the 
disgusting rumbling noises 
that my stomach made.  
Seemingly from thin air,
 
------------
page 15
------
they produced tiny, 
delicate green crystals in 
great abundance.  In my 
hand they appeared as so 
many granules of green 
sugar, except not gritty; 
rather, these were gummy, 
and had a flavor that made 
me think green thoughts. As 
fast as I would pop a 
handful of the green stuff 
into my mouth, the little 
beings would bring me more.  
They also brought me a cup, 
though to them it would be 
a tub, of green liquid, 
which after I drank it, I 
perceived it to be wine 
made from the green gummy 
crystals.  It had a very 
fine flavor, and it made me 
think rather mellow green 
thoughts.
 
As much as the "Big Heads" 
(my name for them) speak to
 
------------
page 16
------
me, I never comprehend a 
single word they say; but I 
must help them drink their 
wine.  
 
One tiny being, who does 
most of the talking, seems 
to be in charge, since the 
others are always paying 
attention to him and they 
jump to action after he 
speaks.  I suppose he is 
the father of these tiny 
beings  While he was 
speaking, he also did 
strange dances.  He looked 
really stupid, waiving his 
arms about like that.
 
After a few weeks of the 
father trying to talk to 
me, some others of these 
"Big Heads" dressed in 
tight colorful clothing 
came to bother me.  Some 
rode upon wheely-thing
 
------------
page 17
------
around and around inside 
the loop on my head!  One 
had the nerve to bounce up 
and down on my lips; I 
should have just opened my 
mouth and swallowed him 
whole!  The only thing I 
did not really mind was the 
three beings that did flips 
and somersaults on the 
three spikes that stick out 
of my chest; that was kind 
of fun!
 
Days and days of the same 
thing now: eating green 
gummy crystals, drinking 
green wine, watching the 
"Father Guy" (my name for 
him) flail about like he 
does and listening to his 
high pitched whining.  
Usually I just sit and 
smile at him, but when my 
cheeks get sore I imitate 
whatever he is doing.  If
 
------------
page 18
------
he nods, I nod. If he 
shakes his head, I shake 
mine.  I will not write in 
this diary unless something 
weird or exciting happens.  
 
How long have I been here?  
It is very hard to keep 
track of time when nothing 
new happens.
 
Once again the "Father Guy" 
came out to bother me with 
his high pitched whining, 
although it seemed more 
fevered this time.  He kept 
pointing off away from 
where we sat, then he stood 
up and stomped about, 
always pointing. It looked 
like a dance to me; as far 
as I knew it was a dance 
since I had never seen any 
of these little beings 
dance, so I stood up and 
danced.  I tried to make
 
------------
page 19
------
the steps of my dance like 
the "Father Guy's," but he 
was not at all pleased with 
my imitation.  
 
I was busy trying to 
perfect my dancing step 
when I was suddenly hit 
from all sides by food!  I 
assumed that it was my part 
in this strange dance to 
try and catch as much of 
the food as I could in my 
mouth.  I was doing pretty 
well, if I do say so 
myself.  I suppose I have 
an advantage over the 
little beings, since my 
mouth is so much bigger 
than any of theirs; perhaps 
this is why I was chosen 
for this special part of 
the dance.
 
More of the "Big Heads" 
joined the crowd that was
 
------------
page 20
------
throwing the food at me, 
so that I finally could not 
keep up with the torrent of 
food.  I do not mean to 
criticize, but many of the 
beings did not have very 
good aim.  I was ducking 
and jumping, doing my best 
to get my face into place 
to catch the food, but a 
lot of it just splattered 
against my body!  A lot 
more just landed on the 
ground, so that I stepped 
in a bunch of it as I moved 
around.  And still more of 
the "Big Heads" came out to 
where we all were and they 
joined in the food 
throwing!  I felt a little 
ridiculous since I could 
not possibly keep up the 
pace of the dance.  And the 
little guys really showed 
no sign of letting up.
 
------------
page 21
------
By now a big circle of the 
beings surrounded me, all 
of them whining and 
shrieking some chant, I 
suppose.  I decided to step 
out of the circle, and 
figured I would get another 
chance to get this dance 
right sometime later.  But 
even after I stepped out of 
the circle, they continued 
to throw the food at me!  I 
did not even try to catch 
it; I really wanted to 
practice this dance and try 
to do better the next time.  
As I stepped further away 
to get out of their 
throwing range, they 
finally stopped.
 
They stopped their whining 
and shrieking chant too, 
and soon the "Big Heads" 
were cheering and clapping.  
I turned back to accept
 
------------
page 22
------
their applause.  I think 
they appreciated that I 
tried so hard to catch all 
of the food, because as 
soon as I turned back, they 
started throwing more.  I 
did not want to dance this 
food-catching dance any 
more!  I turned my back to 
the "Big Heads" with big 
round heads and walked away 
as fast as I could.
 
Before I knew it, I was 
walking up to another group 
of tiny beings.  These 
beings remained silent as I 
approached; no whining or 
shrieking or moaning.
 
These beings are just as 
tiny as the first beings I 
lived amongst, but they 
have different heads.  
Their heads seem to be the 
right size for their little
 
------------
page 23
------
bodies.  Their faces are 
featureless except for a 
long, needle-like 
proboscis.  These tiny 
beings seem to use this 
protuberance for all their 
communication and all their 
senses: sight, smell, 
taste, hearing, feeling.  
Some of these beings 
pointed their needle noses 
here and there over my body 
as I approached, but most 
kept them pointed at my 
feet.
 
Just before I stepped up in 
front of the "Needle Noses" 
(my name for them), they 
began clapping.  By the 
time I actually stopped, 
they were cheering and 
whooping and jumping up and 
down.  This went on for 
quite a while.  Then they 
began to quiet down and the
 
------------
page 24
------
crowd began to split down 
the middle.  I noticed one 
"Needle Nose" coming 
through the crowd  to stand 
in front of me.
 
This "Needle Nose" seemed 
to have the respect of all 
the other "Needle Noses" 
because they all gave their 
attention to him as he 
stood in front of me; I 
could tell because all 
their needle-like noses 
where pointed at him 
instead of me.  He must be 
their "Father Guy."  
 
After looking me over for a 
while, the "Father Guy" 
started speaking at me.  I 
did not understand anything 
that he said to me, but I 
smiled at him the entire 
time that he spoke to me.  
I kept smiling at them all
 
------------
page 25
------
after the "Father Guy" 
finished; I was trying to 
think of something to do!  
I decided to say something 
back to them. 
 
"Well, it's really nice," I 
said, "for all of you to 
come out to greet me today. 
You know, I couldn't stand 
for any more of that food 
throwing dance that the 
"Big Heads" do.  You don't 
have a food throwing dance, 
do you?  Do you guys 
understand me?"
 
I smiled some more after I 
finished and waited for 
something to happen.  All 
the "Needle Noses" did was 
turn around and walk away!  
They kept looking over 
their shoulders as they 
left, but they did not seem 
to care if I followed or if
 
------------
page 26
------
I stayed where I was.  I 
decided I might as well 
stay where I was.  I sat 
down and waited to see what 
would happen.  For days and 
days I sat there and 
nothing happened.  At first 
the "Needle Noses" kept 
looking over their 
shoulders at me, but after 
a few days they seemed to 
forget I was there!
 
After a week or so of being 
ignored, I was hungry, so I 
followed some of the 
"Needle Noses" around as 
they went about their daily 
chores, and every so often 
they would look over their 
shoulders at me. Mostly, 
what they did all day was 
spit on the ground.  It was 
a disgusting sight!  They 
would form lines and walk 
through the fields and the
 
------------
page 27
------
spit on the ground, day 
after day.  All the time, 
spitting!  Day after day, 
no matter where I was, no 
matter what I observed them 
do, they were always 
spitting!  I do not know 
why I did not notice it 
before.
 
Then I noticed all their 
food came from the fields 
they had been spitting in 
all this time!  Food from 
spit!  Now that they were 
harvesting, they had time 
to notice me.  For the 
first time since I arrived 
in the "Needle Nose" land, 
they offered me food.  How 
could I accept it after 
seeing them spit all the 
time to produce the food?  
I ran away, sickened to my 
stomach.
 
------------
page 28
------
After what I am sure must 
be something like 100 
years, I could not take 
living among any of these 
tiny beings any more; I was 
being starved by the 
"Needle Noses" and I did 
not want to go back to the 
"Big Heads" to have them 
throw more food at me 
during their crazy dance.  
I felt defeated and hung my 
head in dejection.  
 
Now, since I was standing 
on a cloud of blue gas, as 
the gas swirled and spun I 
could often see through the 
gas or at least deep into 
the center of it.  
Something fuzzy, as if in 
the distance on the other 
side of the cloud, caught 
my eye.  The shape grew 
larger and a little more 
defined as it came close
 
------------
page 29
------
All at once I clapped my 
hands and whooped for joy!  
I did not need a crystal 
clear view of the object to 
recognize it as the very 
chunk of land that had 
broken off of Ottoborg's 
world and brought me to 
this miserable place.  At 
once I realized what was 
happening: the chunk of 
land was caught in a 
circular orbit and the blue 
gas must be going in a 
straight line that took it 
through two points in that 
circle.  I cried out, 'For 
sure, I am the luckiest of 
all of Ottoborg's sons!'
 
Carefully, as it passed 
through the cloud of blue 
gas, I jumped off the 
springy surface of debris 
and onto my chunk of my 
father's world.  I have not
 
------------
page 30
------
been on the chunk of land 
for about three minutes, 
long enough to make this 
latest entry into my 
journal.  Gee, it's great 
to be back 'home' again!  I 
hope I never..."
 
Here the excerpt of the 
diary ends abruptly.  It is 
said that the chunk of land 
that Aloh Al was on 
suddenly smashed into a 
dirt clod that collided 
with it head-on.  Both the 
chunk and the clod were 
traveling at great speeds 
upon impact.  Nothing was 
ever seen of Aloh Al again.
 
Creeker's chunk of land was 
the biggest and it was full 
of lakes.  There was 
actually more land covered 
by water than not.  Creeker 
survived many centuries on
 
------------
page 31
------
the chunk -- long enough 
to learn how to create and 
build giant replicas of 
spoons and butter knives, 
enormous buckets filled 
with oversized sesame 
seeds, and huge loaves of 
bread, among other things.
 
Creeker used the soil of 
the dry land on his chunk 
as the material for his 
sculptures.  Whenever he 
would get tired of looking 
at one of his colossal 
sculptures, he would just 
throw it into a lake.  Each 
of the colossal sculptures 
displaced enormous amounts 
of water, covering up a 
little more dry land each 
time one was thrown into a 
lake.
 
When he was not sculpting, 
Creeker would be out
 
------------
page 32
------
scrutinizing one of his 
previous sculptures.  He 
was very critical of his 
work.  He always concluded 
that the sculpture did not 
communicate the concept 
that was the impetus behind 
the work; or he saw a hair  
or a bug sticking out of 
the clay.  In any case, he 
was always frustrated.
 
None of his works seemed to 
express his vision just the 
right way.  He could not 
quite put his finger on the 
problem, but his general 
feeling was that it had to 
do with the size of the 
sculpture.  
 
"If only it was a little 
bit bigger...", he would 
often say to himself.  Then 
he would heave the thing
 
------------
page 33
------
into the nearest lake.
 
His mind was focused 
intently on making each new 
sculpture larger than the 
previous one, whether it be 
a giant replica of a Red 
Pod bulb or a mostly empty 
jar that had been sitting 
in the back of a valley for 
eight weeks.  Eventually, 
he spent very little time 
examining his finished 
works, but with an 
exclamation of disgust he 
would throw the work into 
the nearest lake (which, 
after a while, seemed to be 
conveniently closer and 
closer) just as soon as it 
was done and immediately 
start on the next one.  The 
replicas were by this time, 
so large that he had to 
climb them to work on the 
upper parts.
 
------------
page 34
------
The largest sculpture 
Creeker ever completed was 
of a baby's arm holding an 
apple.  It was such a 
titanic work that he had to 
use spikes and ropes to get 
up it.  When he finished, 
he had to rappel down the 
back of the arm.  He backed 
up to get a good look at 
it, but could not back up 
very far since he was on a 
beach.  
 
Again, his disgust and 
frustration overcame him as 
he said, "No, no, no.  
That's not it at all!"  
Then Creeker rushed at the 
base of the sculpture to 
push it into the water.  He 
barely budged it, but it 
was top heavy since the 
apple at the top was 
enormous, so that his push 
was enough motion to cause
 
------------
page 35
------
the sculpture to fall 
over.  Creeker turned to 
start on a new sculpture, 
(he had in mind a great 
pair of tongs digging into 
a bucket of sand) and he 
never saw the tidal wave 
that fell upon him.
 
Hondo's chunk of land ended 
up on the back of a giant 
animal that lived in a 
desert on an undocumented 
planet.  Hondo seemed to 
like the animal enough, and 
he was so small that the 
animal did not detect his 
existence.  There was not 
much that Hondo could tell 
about what the animal 
looked like.  It was a 
colossal beast compared to 
Hondo.  
 
He took many survey 
journeys that went on for
 
------------
page 36
------
days and days across the 
top of the beast to see if 
it looked different from 
other locations.  As he 
walked, he noticed the 
color of the ground 
changed; presently he would 
be passing over an area 
that was brown, then 
fifteen feet or so further 
he would pass over an area 
that was yellow.  The 
surface he walked on was 
hard and mostly smooth, but 
it was terraced into short, 
flat little hills all over.  
When he came to the edge, 
he was looking around and 
he almost fell off.  He got 
down on his stomach to look 
over the edge.  There was 
nothing between him and the 
ground which was very far 
away; if he had jumped, the 
fall would have broken 
every bone in his body. 
 
------------
page 37
------
He was on the lip of an 
overhang, and he reached 
under it to see if he could 
feel how far back it went, 
but the overhang went 
straight back and kept 
going.  Then he carefully 
lowered his head over to 
look and see how far back 
this overhang went.  He 
could not see it though, 
there was so much dark 
shadow he could only see 
about as far as his hand 
reached.
 
Hondo got up and decided to 
walk directly away from the 
edge.  He grew very tired 
almost immediately as the 
surface began ascending 
right away.  It took a day 
to reach the summit, so he 
slept there.  In the 
morning Hondo was able to 
see very far from the top
 
------------
page 38
------
of the animal.  The sky 
was all blue, and the land 
was all beige.  He saw that 
the highest hilly part of 
this animal sloped down in 
all directions around from 
where he stood.
  
Ed's Chunk  just spun in 
place, forever
 
------------------------------
pages total: 38
