pages total: 28
------------------------------
------------
page 1
------
Quater decided to make a 
being of greater substance 
than any of his previous 
creations.  Numeron looks 
like a pile of cubes.  He 
was obsessed with being 
sensible and correct in 
everything, following the 
rules to the letter.  
Numeron rarely did anything 
on his own without asking 
Quater for his explicit 
directions.  
 
Numeron loved his crown and 
wore it with much pride -- 
perhaps a little too much 
pride.  He made three 
hundred duplicates of 
himself whom he would boss 
around, all day, every day.  
 
------------
page 2
------
These are some of their 
genealogies:
 
The first-born of Numeron 
was Nabris, a clone of 
Numeron. 
 
The first-born of Nabris 
was Thopo Bean the Similar, 
then Leebda, Masbim, 
Mishmash, Hamduh, Bim, Dad, 
Eemat, Juter, Big Eefish, 
Shiphann, and Hamdeck; 
These were the sons of  
Nabris.  
 
And the sons of Thopo Bean 
were Narmiz, Jok, Gok, Wim, 
Nyeby, Itchy Itch, Kashi, 
and Chipchape.  
 
And the sons of Nyeby were 
Abesh and Naded.  
 
And the sons of Itchy Itch 
were Haphe, Rephe
 
------------
page 3
------
Macincrog, Adiba, 
Inkerkrog, and Haa.  All 
these were the sons of 
Thopo Bean the Similar.
 
And Numeron was the father 
of Numeron Junior.  
 
The sons of Numeron Junior 
were Lee Mimba and 
Suppanuppa. 
 
The sons of Lee Mimba were 
Zaphile, Loiter, Sho Horf, 
Malagasket, and Harok.  
 
The sons of Zaphile were 
Namet, Ramo, Eye Fez, 
Maytag, Zanek, Anmit, and 
Kelama.  
 
The sons of Loiter were 
Thahan, Harpinbarpin, Ham 
Mash, and Shasa. 
 
------------
page 4
------
And the sons of 
Harpinbarpin were Pies, 
Budd, Labopunky, Noebiz, 
Hana, Nosh B'Gosh, Reez, 
and Nashid.  
 
And the sons of Budd were 
Iroh and Mamoh; and Natol's 
sister was Annie Nitnitnit.
 
The sons of Nosh Gosh were 
Alen, Nunnybiz, The, 
Laybee, Yf, and Mano.  
 
And the sons of Nunnybiz 
were Hoxokina-Giq and Sot, 
the nephew of The.  
 
The son of Sot was Noknok.  
And the sons of Noknok were 
Narm, Nab, Narthi, and Nar 
and Reez.  
 
The sons of Reez were Nalbo 
and Nazazanatab.
 
------------
page 5
------
The sons of Nalbo were Zuh 
and Narakatangbaloof.
 
Now these are the kings who 
reigned in the land of 
Hecka before any king of 
the sons of Numeron Junior 
reigned.  
 
Aleb was the son of 
Royendale, and the name of 
his city was Havtoo.  
 
When Aleb died, Baburno the 
son of Hywya of Harzob 
became king in his place.  
 
When Baburno died, Mashush 
of the land of the 
Nametites became king in 
his place.  
 
When Mashush died, Dadah 
the son of Dadeb, who 
defeated Nidiam in the
 
------------
page 6
------
field of Baom, became king 
in his place; and the name 
of his city was Theam.  
 
When Dadah died, Pe'halloo 
of Hackersam became king in 
his place.  
 
When Pe'halloo died, Oowee 
of Thothot by the River 
became king in his place.  
 
When Oowee died, Nanahball 
the son of Robcha by the 
Sea became king in his 
place.  
 
When Nanahball died, Dadah 
became king in his place; 
and the name of his city 
was Iap, and his wife's 
name was Dimethicone, the 
daughter of Padimate, the 
daughter of Obenzone.  
 
Then Dadah died. 
 
------------
page 7
------
Now the chiefs of Hecka 
were: chief Anmity, chief 
Emollient, chief Thethe, 
chief Hamabiloho, chief 
Hale, chief Nonip, chief 
Zanek, chief Namet, chief 
Razama, chief Le'nez, and 
chief Mari.  These were the 
chiefs of Hecka.
 
Now Numeron paid little 
attention to the beings he 
had already made, rather he 
focused intently on new 
beings to create and 
neglect. Numeron made 
Nabris' brother, Abris, who 
was a pure-hearted obedient 
follower, in spite of the 
fact that Numeron ignored 
him. 
 
Nabris became convinced 
that no one could be as 
good as Abris made himself 
appear, and he feared that
 
------------
page 8
------
Abris would eventually 
displease Quater, so 
Nabris, believing that 
Numeron was paying no 
attention, destroyed Abris 
by breaking-off all of the 
many antlers that covered 
Abris' back and neck.
 
This heinous act did, in 
fact, escape Numeron's 
notice, but Quater himself 
was watching, and he smote 
Nabris with permanent 
blindness.
 
Now the sons of Narcolon, 
the son of Numeron were 
Leemhare, Mah, and 
Iabulech.  
 
And Mah became the father 
of Badanimma, 
 
And Badanimma became the 
father of Noshhan, leader
 
------------
page 9
------
of the sons of Narcolon; 
 
Noshhan became the father 
of Amlas, 
 
Amlas became the father of 
Zoab, 
 
Zoab became the father of 
Debo, 
 
And Debo became the father 
of Esse; 
 
And Esse became the father 
of Baile his first-born, 
then Badaniba the second, 
Aemish the third, Lenathen 
the fourth, Iaddar the 
fifth, Mezo the sixth, Hank 
the seventh; and their 
sisters were Huarez and 
Liagiba.  
 
And the three sons of 
Huarez were Ashba, Box
 
------------
page 10
------
and Lehasa. and Liagiba 
bore Muddy-Bingpoody, and 
the father of Muddy-
Bingpoody was Jethro the 
Nabrisite. 
 
And Muddy-Bingpoody became 
the father of Bananagrunt,
and Bananagrunt became the 
father of Nosuchluk, leader 
of the sons of Nodice; 
 
Nosuchluk became the father 
of Amwhat, Amwhat became 
the father of Goatphlegm, 
Goatphlegm became the 
father of Denturupture, and 
Denturupture became the 
father of Cuptpt
 
And Cuptpt became the 
father of Vque his first-
born, then Hiwyekun the 
second, Tahnana the third, 
Bizwc the fourth, Iaata the 
fifth, Ntindo the sixth,
 
------------
page 11
------
Ngoink the seventh; and 
their sisters were 
Beachnoodle and Grahamlit.  
 
And the three sons of 
Beachnoodle were Corpup, 
Pango, and Quitit.  And 
Grahumus bore Azma, and the 
father of Azma was Othal 
the Obscure Prince.
 
Now the sons of Numero 
Benti, the son of Numeron, 
were Leintho and High Harry 
Hapsicomby.  And the son of 
Leintho was ThatThat.  And 
the son of ThatThat was 
Ath.  
 
And Ath became the father 
of Oprah, and Harry became 
the father of Meesh 
Kapeesh, for they were 
craftsmen.  And Meesh 
Kapeesh became the father 
of Nadarazuben
 
------------
page 12
------
Numeron was the father of 
Ni Ron.  Ni Ron became the 
father of those who dwell 
in eight-by-fourteen-foot 
thatched huts and use Pygmy 
Shrimp Swabs.  And his 
brother's name was N-Ron, 
who's food had to be pre-
chewed by Ni Ron.  
 
N-Ron became the father of 
all those who celebrate in 
Numeron's birthday parade, 
playing the Pinkerkrogg and 
the Ngtoilibong.
 
Numeron became the father 
of Numby.
 
Then Numeron became the 
father of Nasak the Great.
 
And Numeron was the father 
of Kilfax, who just sat 
there.
 
------------
page 13
------
One year, Numeron lost 
half of his beings off of a 
cliff.  They were on one of 
their morning marches when 
the ground fell out from 
under one of the leaders, 
and half of the others 
followed before Numeron 
noticed their peril, and 
was able to convince the 
rest to turn back.
 
Though one hundred and 
fifty beings marched 
straight off the cliff, not 
all of these perished. Many 
were some of Numeron's 
heartiest creations.  The 
two that were the strongest 
and came through the fall 
most intact were Numby and 
Nasak the Great.  
 
The fall landed Numeron's 
beings in the Trench of 
Aramoose.
 
------------
page 14
------
There, Numby and Nasak set 
up kingdoms: The Twin 
Kingdoms of Numby and 
Nasak.  This did not go 
unnoticed by Numeron.  He 
saw that as soon as the 
surviving beings thought 
that they were outside the 
presence of Numeron, they 
forgot him and his world.  
 
They began their own 
societies.  Numeron 
observed their wickedness 
and saw that it was great.  
Numeron was sorry that he 
ever made any beings at 
all.  
 
He said to himself, "Not 
only do I have to keep 
cracking the whip, so to 
speak, over these beings 
night and day, but to top 
it all off, as soon as I am 
out of their sight they
 
------------
page 15
------
forget me!  At least I 
still have one hundred and 
fifty to keep under my 
thumb; and believe me I 
will.  The rest of these I 
can destroy; I'll cause a 
catastrophic explosion 
throughout the Trench.  
That'll show them!"
 
But Numeron saw that Numby 
was a blameless creature.
Numby was a righteous king; 
in fact, he was the only 
being in the Trench of 
Aramoose that remembered 
Numeron.  (They called it 
the Trench of Aramoose 
because of the Swit trees 
that grow there; the actual 
name of the trench was 
"Great Canyon of the Ruins 
of Desolation Number 
Five."
 
------------
page 16
------
He tried and tried for 
twelve and a half years to 
remind the subjects in his 
modest little kingdom about 
the past, but since Numeron 
would not take the time to 
make himself known, they 
would not remember him. 
 
His subjects thought Numby 
was a fine king, but they 
would not heed his warning 
that their creator would 
not tolerate their 
corruption forever.
 
Nasak the Great, on the 
other hand, did not think 
Numby was a fine king.  He 
considered Numby and his 
preaching about Numeron a 
nuisance.  Nasak's kingdom 
grew every day, filling 
more and more of the 
Trench.  The southern 
sector extended from the
 
------------
page 17
------
wilderness of Zinniflox 
along the side of 
Eebisimperut.  Then the 
south side was from the 
edge of Hapalanche, and the 
border went westward and 
went to the fountain of the 
waters of Neopithm.  And 
the border went down to the 
edge of the hill which is 
in the valley of Bonablink, 
which is in the valley of 
Buppabumjoy northward; and 
it went down to the valley 
of Dycyoonwang, to the 
slope of the Oonja Wapoong 
southward, and went down to 
Boke.  And it extended 
northward and went to 
Sabboota and went to 
Soysinga, which is opposite 
the ascent of Eenta Nina, 
and it went down to the 
stone of Ru the son of Lu.  
And it continued to the
 
------------
page 18
------
side in front of the Left-
Handed-Fletchy northward, 
and went down to the Left-
Handed-Fletchy.  And the 
border continued to the 
side of Hoglah-Doglah 
northward; and the border 
ended at the north bay of 
the Stinky Sea, at the 
south end of the Helio-
Hogma.  Moreover, the 
Helio-Hogma was its border 
on the east side.  And the 
southern border extended 
from the end of the Stinky 
Sea eastward.  Then the 
border turned direction 
from the south to the 
ascent of Akakak Inzeeba, 
and continued to Ziniflox, 
and its termination was to 
the south of Radish-
Barnmold; and it reached 
Huzz, and continued to 
Itzabiggy, even unto the 
great river that is called
 
------------
page 19
------
"Mifflewimx-the-
Uncrossable Except-in-a-
Couple-of-Places-Where-It-
Gets-Slow-and-Shallow," and 
unto the Early Risers 
Clubhouse.  And the border 
turned direction from Hey 
Wait to the brook of Ptyge, 
and its termination was at 
the sea. 
 
As for the western border, 
it was the Amazing Colossal 
Sea, that is, its 
coastline; this was the 
western border.  
 
And this was the north 
border: they drew the 
border line from the 
Amazing Colossal Sea to 
Mount Pephilter.  They drew 
a line from Mount Pephilter 
to the Hotus-Kelley.  Then 
the border went up to the 
side of Hntma on the north, 
and went up through the 
hill country westward; and
 
------------
page 20
------
it ended at the wilderness 
of Cannbens.  And from 
there the border continued 
to Quelp, to the side of 
Quelp (that is, Reflecklel) 
southward; and the border 
went down to Atimantshoe, 
near the hill which lies on 
the south of lower Surgurt.  
And the border extended 
from there, and turned 
round on the west side 
southward, from the hill 
which lies before Surgurt 
southward; and it ended at 
Sour-bead (that is, Sour-
knobel), a city  of the 
sons of Meesh Kapeesh. And 
the termination of the 
border was at Blightensuch.  
This was the northern 
border.
 
Now the eastern border 
reached the border of 
Edupated, southward to the
 
------------
page 21
------
wilderness of Brain-Worm 
at the extreme south.  Then 
it proceeded southward to 
the ascent of Quel From and 
continued to Brain-Worm, 
then went up by the south 
of Radish-Barnmold and 
continued to Larry, and 
went up to Rebaeton Perchis 
and turned about to 
Clarksdil. And it continued 
to Stew Lumps and proceeded 
to the brook of Fathering; 
then the border went up to 
Burn Dagit, and continued 
on the north of Undoubtedly 
Moister, which is opposite 
the ascent of Surmapleet, 
which is on the south of 
the valley; and the border 
continued to the waters of 
Housenploop.  And the 
border went up to the top 
of the mountain which is 
before the valley of 
Twisted Balm, which is a
 
------------
page 22
------
the end of the valley of 
Guarantaph toward the 
north.  And from the top of 
the mountain the border 
curved to the spring of the 
waters of Rankness.  And 
the border turned about 
from Bollixisix westward to 
Mount Dososky.  They drew a 
line from Dososky to Shemp, 
and the border went down 
from Shemp to Reeply Engine 
on the east side of 
Hmhmhmhmhm, and continued 
towards Pylohylodylo (Which 
means, "I don't think I can 
put that much in my 
mouth."); and the border 
went down and reached the 
slope on the east side of 
the Sea of Often Fallen 
Into.  And the border went 
down to the Fibrilatin and 
its termination was at the 
Stinky Sea.
 
------------
page 23
------
This was Nasak the Great's 
land according to its 
borders all around.  
 
His thriving cities were 
all decadent and vile, but 
that is what sells -- that 
is what the people want.  
Thus his kingdom grew, even 
taking in droves of 
defectors from the good 
kingdom of Numby. 
 
Yet, still not content with 
his great wealth of power, 
riches and influence, he 
coveted the dry, rocky land 
of the Kingdom of Numby.  
Nasak plotted a war of 
conquest against Numby.
Numeron saw all of this and 
knew that Numby's number 
was coming up.  So he paid 
a visit to Numby to explain 
the catastrophic explosion.
 
------------
page 24
------
Numby was alone when 
Numeron arrived.  Numeron 
wanted to speak with Numby 
and his wife, Grace, so 
Numby went searching for 
her.  The basement was 
flooded, so she was not 
there.  She was in the 
attic, which in the Kingdom 
of Numby is called an 
"Izathelow."  So Numby 
found her there, high and 
dry.  They went together to 
the patio where Numeron 
addressed them:
 
"Numby, I am going to blow 
up this Trench with all 
these vile beings in it.  
But I don't want to destroy 
you and Grace, so I want 
you to build a treehouse, 
where you can stay and 
remain safe during the 
explosion.
 
------------
page 25
------
Numeron gave Numby a 
blueprint for the treehouse 
and described the exact 
location of the tree he 
wanted him to build it in. 
He also gave him very 
specific details for the 
construction of the 
treehouse.  "You shall make 
the treehouse from Weetby 
wood.  It shall be a split-
level treehouse with an 
enclosed foyer, gabled 
roof, with rough beam 
ceiling, bay windows in the 
living room and in the 
kitchen over the sink.  All 
the measurements are here 
on the floorplan."
As Numby and Grace worked 
on the treehouse, their 
neighbors, who formerly 
thought of Numby as a fine 
king, came out to mock the 
construction of the 
treehouse.
 
------------
page 26
------
Numeron had given Numby 
seven days to complete the 
construction of the 
treehouse, and he was 
nearly finished. By then, 
Nasak the Great had 
completed his plans for 
conquest and his armies 
were massed and marching 
toward the capitol of 
Numby.  
 
Then King Numby and Grace 
entered the treehouse, as 
instructed by Numeron.  
 
Numeron detonated the 
catastrophic explosion, 
destroying all the beings 
but Numby and Grace in the 
Twin Kingdoms of Numby and 
Nasak the Great in the 
Trench of Aramoose. 
 
Now this great explosion 
had disrupted the deep
 
------------
page 27
------
panels of the world. A 
hot, green substance 
belched forth from the 
cracks in the panels and 
filled the canyon. Numby 
and Grace watched as the 
"Hot Green" swirled around 
the foot of the tree. They 
were trapped. Now Weetby 
wood is impossible to burn 
so they were safe as long 
as they did not leave the 
treehouse. Many days passed 
as Numby and Grace grew 
hungry.
 
One evening they looked out 
beyond the tree and sang a 
song to Numeron regarding 
their hunger: 
 
"Noom noom Numeron,
send us food 
to chew-mer-on
 
------------
page 28
------
Numeron heard their plea, 
and he sent a great bird to 
nest in the tree in which 
the treehouse was built. 
Every morning the great 
bird laid a giant egg, 
which landed in Numby and 
Grace's bed. They gently 
cracked the eggs open to 
find five-course meals 
prepared, complete with a 
fine linen tablecloth, and 
brass candelabra. 
 
They lived this way for 
many days until the "Hot 
Green" cooled to become 
just "Green." This new form 
of ground felt lovely to 
walk on. 
 
They lived happily for many 
ages. Grace died one 
beautiful day, Numby died 
three days later
 
------------------------------
pages total: 28
