pages total: 33
------------------------------
------------
page 1
------
Quater made Ogdilla as a 
kind of test-subject.  He 
gave Ogdilla a crown, 
although he did not have a 
head to set the crown on.  
Ogdilla is a mass of blue 
gas that is barely self-
aware.  It is said that 
Ogdilla is the spirit of 
adventure since on the day 
he was made, he left 
Quater's homeland traveling 
in a straight line without 
stopping... 
 
He has picked up many 
particles from space, which 
have made a happy home for 
themselves on Ogdilla's back.  
 
Ogdilla is now one million 
times the size he was when 
Quater made him, and his 
inhabitants include the 
Specks of Rilonate. 
 
------------
page 2
------
The Specks of Rilonate 
were in constant conflict 
with the Specks of Rod.  
The Specks of Rod 
cultivated food on 
Ogdilla's back using their 
own spit.  The Specks of 
Rilonate had no spit, but 
occupied most of the 
surface of Ogdilla.  The 
Specks of Rilonate were 
disgusted by all the 
spitting that the Specks of 
Rod did, and  they did not 
like stepping in it either.  
 
The strife between the 
Specks of Rilonate and the 
Specks of Rod carried on 
for centuries.  The 
conflict was never 
physically violent, but 
there was much whining, 
taunting, heated sneering, 
upheavals, and so on.  This 
period is known as the 
"Oobla Senchter Hakkt," or:
 
------------
page 3
------
the "Three Millennia of 
Conflict," although it was 
really more like two and a 
half.  During the "Oobla 
Senchter Hakkt," an 
incident happened that at 
once made all the Specks 
forget their animosity, and 
at the same time 
exacerbated the conflict 
even more.
 
In the eighth month on the 
twenty seventh day, during 
the eleventh year of the 
first century of the second 
millennium of the "Oobla 
Senchter Hakkt," the Specks 
of Rilonate woke up to find 
a strange being of gigantic 
size asleep in Screnchy 
Park.  There was a pond by 
his head where he had 
drooled while he slept. A 
crowd of Specks gathered 
around the titan as the
 
------------
page 4
------
morning hours went by. The 
larger the crowd grew, the 
more the Specks talked 
among themselves.  The 
hubbub finally became so 
loud that the giant awoke 
and sat up.  The giant 
showed his great teeth and 
growled at them from deep 
within his huge body. The 
Specks fed him for fear of 
being eaten alive.  The 
giant could easily have 
thrown three or four of 
them into his mouth at 
once.  He was very bizarre 
looking, even for a giant; 
he was like nothing they 
had ever seen before.  His 
head had a ring of flesh on 
it that started almost at 
the very top then looped 
down and joined the head 
again at the jaw.  Three 
Specks, one on top of the 
other, could have stood up
 
------------
page 5
------
inside the ring.  He had 
huge lips with which he 
covered his enormous teeth, 
while the Specks had no 
lips at all.  Above the 
lips, almost to the top of 
the face, were two ball-
shaped things that had one 
dot within each of them.  
The giant seemed to use 
them to observe things,  
since the dots moved and 
pointed at whoever was 
speaking to him.  His torso 
was short for his size, 
while his legs were 
extremely long. Out of his 
chest stuck three spiked 
horns.
 
For days upon end the 
Specks tried to speak to 
the giant to find out if he 
was friend or foe, to no 
avail.  His form of speech 
sounded too low-down, deep
 
------------
page 6
------
and loud; it reminded them 
too much of the rumbling 
growl that came from deep 
within his body.  The 
Specks did not like it and 
they did not understand it.  
They could not even tell 
where one syllable ended 
and the next began; and 
comprehending sentences was 
totally impossible.  To 
avoid hearing him speak, 
the Specks fed him 
constantly.  The Specks of 
Rilonate did not keep a 
guard posted where the 
giant was staying; they 
could never have over-
powered him.  In any case, 
the giant never threatened 
them.  King Rilonate had in 
mind to win over the 
giant's confidence so that 
he might be employed to 
stomp on the Specks of Rod.
King Rilonate often went to
 
------------
page 7
------
Screnchy Park to speak to 
the giant.  He wanted to 
impress the giant, so he 
had the best acrobats from 
the Rilonate Circus come 
visit him.  The king 
commanded the unicyclist to 
do loop-the-loops inside 
the ring on the giants 
head, while a high-diver 
did trick dives off his 
huge lips into a barrel of 
water at the giant's feet.  
During these demonstrations 
of the circus performers' 
expertise, the giant did 
nothing but stand still and 
smile.  Even while there 
were trapeze artists 
swinging from the three 
spikes that stuck out from 
his chest, the giant stood 
like a stone sculpture with 
a silly grin on his face.  
King Rilonate redoubled his 
efforts to continue to try
 
------------
page 8
------
to communicate with the 
giant once he saw that the 
giant would not harm the 
circus performers as they 
climbed and swung upon his 
body.
 
Day after day, the king 
came out to where the giant 
was to try again to 
communicate his desire for 
the giant to walk over and 
stomp on the Specks of Rod.  
The giant smiled a lot at 
the king; he nodded his 
head when the king nodded 
his head; he shook his head 
when the king shook his 
head.  When King Rilonate 
slapped his own forehead, 
the giant slapped his own 
forehead.  When the king 
mimed walking, and pointed 
in the direction of the 
Kingdom of Rod, the giant 
stood up and did a dance.
 
------------
page 9
------
King Rilonate was furious!  
While the giant was still 
dancing, the king ordered 
all the Specks of Rilonate 
to throw things at him. 
Since they were feeding the 
giant all the time, the 
only stuff they had at hand 
was food, so they threw 
that at him.
 
The giant tried to eat as 
much of the food thrown at 
him as possible, but he 
could not keep up with the 
furious pace with which the 
Specks were throwing it at 
him.  He turned and walked 
away from them and headed 
in the direction of the 
Kingdom of Rod.  Since the 
Specks of Rilonate had 
thrown so much food at the 
giant, no matter where he 
turned he stepped into it.  
With each step, more and
 
------------
page 10
------
more food gunked-up on the 
bottom of his feet.  The 
Specks of Rilonate cheered 
and clapped and jumped up 
and down when the giant 
continued in the direction 
of Rod!  The giant turned 
back to look at the Specks, 
so they stopped their 
cheering and got ready to 
throw more food.  But the 
giant did not come back; he 
continued on the way he was 
headed, toward the Kingdom 
of Rod.
 
So the Specks of Rilonate 
had a great celebration!  
They hoped that as soon as 
the giant arrived in the 
kingdom of Rod, he would 
smoosh the Specks of Rod 
who were such a bother to 
the Kingdom of Rilonate.
 
------------
page 11
------
King Rilonate gave a  
rousing speech:
 
"Well, that's that for the 
great giant!  I suppose we 
owe a debt of thanks to the 
goofy colossus, for he will 
shortly be stepping on the 
Specks of Rod and making so 
much mush of them!  His 
immense foot will crush our 
ancient foe in an instant.  
Squashed beneath his 
mammoth bulk, those 
unspeakable wretches will 
be reduced to the vile scum 
that they have always 
represented.  We are now 
delivered forever from their 
constant whining, taunting 
and hectoring.  That feeble 
minded titan is our 
national hero!  A doltish 
whopper, he shall be the 
greatest of all figures in 
the history of Rilonate.
 
------------
page 12
------
There is none equal to his 
blockheaded enormity on all 
of Ogdilla, but he did 
finally come through for 
us. A stupendously dumb 
gargantua, it is well, 
nevertheless, that we are 
rid of him.  And I suppose 
we ought to be thankful 
that the half-witted 
behemoth did not stomp on 
us too.  I cannot think of 
any reason why he would 
come back here... can you?"
 
Meanwhile, the Specks of 
Rod heard the giant before 
they saw him.  His every 
step made a hollow drum 
sound on the debris-covered 
surface of Ogdilla.  They 
gathered into frightened 
groups, becoming more and 
more agitated as the 
booming steps grew ever 
louder. 
 
------------
page 13
------
Finally they saw him!   
They saw his big ring-head, 
his big lips, and the 
spikes sticking out of his 
chest.  But what most 
impressed them were his 
feet.  Actually, what most 
impressed them was what 
they saw stuck to the 
bottom of his feet.  All 
that food that he had 
stepped on looked 
disgusting, but the Specks 
of Rod did not know that it 
was food.  The Specks stood 
in stunned silence.  They 
knew that the giant had 
come from the direction of 
the Kingdom of Rilonate.  
Their imaginations took 
over from there.  
 
The Specks of Rod were 
convinced that the giant 
had stomped on the Specks 
of Rilonate and made mush
 
------------
page 14
------
of them.  As the giant got 
closer and closer, word 
went through the crowd that 
the giant had finished off 
the Specks of Rilonate and 
was now coming to their 
kingdom to stomp on them.  
Some of the Specks ran away 
screaming; but most stood 
still, knowing they could 
not out-run the fearsome 
giant's feet.  Then one 
Speck of Rod started 
clapping. At first, the 
Specks next to him thought 
he was crazy, but then they 
started clapping too.  Soon 
a small group was clapping.  
Then  most of the crowd was 
clapping and cheering and 
jumping up and down as the 
giant approached.  They had 
figured that if the giant 
thought they were glad that 
the Specks of Rilonate had 
been stomped to pudding,
 
------------
page 15
------
then he might spare them 
and consent to be their 
hero.
When the giant reached the 
front of the crowd they 
whooped and hollered for a 
few minutes more.  Then  
the crowd parted and  King 
Rod made his way through to 
the front  There, before 
his people at the giant's 
feet, he made a speech:
 
"Oh, Great Giant!  Thank 
you, Mighty Colossal Allied 
Thing, for stepping on the 
Specks of Rilonate and 
making so much mush of 
them!  Your immense foot 
has crushed our ancient foe 
in an instant.  Squashed 
beneath your mammoth bulk, 
these unspeakable hidiots 
(hideous idiots) have been 
reduced to the evil scum 
that they have always
 
------------
page 16
------
represented.  We are now 
delivered forever from 
their constant whining, 
taunting and bantering.  
You, Magnificent Titan, 
are our national hero!  Oh 
Necromaniacal Whopper, you 
shall be the greatest of 
all figures in the history 
of Rod.  There is none 
equal to your fabulous 
enormity on all of Ogdilla.  
You, Tremendous Gargantua, 
shall be second only to 
myself, unless of course 
you would rather be number 
one.  By the way, we thank 
you, Phenomenal Behemoth, 
so very much for not 
stomping on us too.  I can 
only offer our humble 
Kingdom to you, Amazing 
Monstrosity, as 
compensation for the 
wonderful deed you have 
accomplished today.  It is
 
------------
page 17
------
not a kingdom worthy of 
your monumental 
grandiosity, of course; you 
won't like it much.  You 
will probably not like 
anything we offer you, 
since it is all tiny 
compared to your gigantean 
size.  But of course, 
anything we have is yours, 
but I don't know what you 
would do with it.  I say, 
do you understand me?"
 
The giant smiled at the 
Specks of Rod, who smiled 
back, until he spoke to 
them.  To the Specks his 
voice sounded slow and deep 
and slurred.  They looked 
at each other and shrugged 
their shoulders.  The 
Specks of Rod decided to go 
back to what they were each 
doing before the giant 
arrived.  As they left
 
------------
page 18
------
they kept looking over 
their shoulders to make 
sure the giant was not 
lifting one of his big feet 
to stomp on them.  He did 
not move from where he 
stood and maintained his 
smile until they were out 
of sight. 
 
The next day the giant was 
right where the Specks of 
Rod had left him, only he 
was sitting.  So, the 
Specks went about their 
daily chores, and 
occasionally they would 
look over their shoulders 
at the giant just to make 
sure he had not stood up.  
This did not change for 
several days.  Finally the 
giant got up and started 
following some Specks 
around.  He seemed to be 
watching them as they went
 
------------
page 19
------
about their everyday 
tasks.  He still smiled as 
he watched them, but not as 
much.  Day after day, month 
after month, season after 
season he watched them 
tending their fields, from 
planting to harvest.
 
At harvest time many Specks 
noticed how much thinner 
the giant looked and how 
little he smiled as 
compared to when he had 
first arrived in the 
Kingdom of Rod.  As they 
talked about it, they 
realized no one had seen 
him eat while he had been 
there.  Some of the Specks 
got together and brought 
food to the giant.  When he 
saw that they had brought 
some food to him, the giant 
looked horrified!  He got 
up and ran off, far away
 
------------
page 20
------
from the Kingdoms of Rod 
and Rilonate.
 
There is no official record 
of when the giant was seen 
last or who saw him, but a 
few Specks from both 
Kingdoms insist that they 
saw the giant ascending 
into the heavens early one 
morning a few years after 
he ran away from the 
Kingdom of Rod.
 
About the time that the 
giant ran off, spies from 
the Kingdom of Rilonate 
came to the Kingdom of Rod 
and saw that the Specks of 
Rod were not obliterated.  
They noticed that their 
enemies were not even 
bruised a little!  This 
report went back to King 
Rilonate, who was shocked 
and upset that once again
 
------------
page 21
------
the Specks of Rod had 
foiled his own  Speck 
Kingdom.  He ordered a 
delegation to go to the 
Kingdom of Rod and meet 
with a delegation of the 
Specks of Rod.  When the 
delegation of  Rilonate 
arrived at Rod there was 
much shock and agitation.  
"You are supposed to be 
squashed!" said the 
representative of Rilonate.
"Well, you are supposed to 
be squished!" said the 
representative of Rod.
 
Tensions rose and 
accusations flew!  Each 
side blamed the other for 
making their king's most 
famous speech a pack of 
lies.  The delegations gave 
messages to each other to 
take back to their 
respective kings about how
 
------------
page 22
------
there could never be peace 
between the two kingdoms.  
As they left the meeting, 
they all thumbed their 
noses at each other!  The 
"Oobla Senchter Hakkt" was 
back in full swing.
 
King Rilonate grew tired of 
the thousands of years of 
bickering between his 
Specks and King Rod's 
Specks.  In a desperate 
move to bring about a day 
of peace, he asked for a 
secret meeting with King 
Rod at the center of 
Ogdilla.  In the thirty 
fourth month on the second 
day, during the eighty 
ninth year of the fifth 
century of the third 
millennium of the "Oobla 
Senchter Hakkt," the kings 
met.  The two kings 
reasoned for two weeks,
 
------------
page 23
------
trying solutions that 
were fair for both 
kingdoms, but to no avail.  
Meanwhile, Ogdilla himself 
had grown so tired of the 
angst he felt on his back 
that he spread all of the 
Specks of Rod to one half 
of his back and the Specks 
of Rilonate to the other 
half of his back.  In a 
violent quake, Ogdilla 
split into two beings which 
floated independently from 
each other.  The only 
problem was that King Rod 
ended up on the half of the 
back with the Specks of 
Rilonate, and King Rilonate 
found himself on the half 
of Ogdilla with the Specks 
of Rod.  King Rilonate was 
at first mistaken by the 
Specks of Rod as King  Rod, 
but he quickly corrected 
the Specks of Rod
 
------------
page 24
------
announcing that he was 
King Rilonate.  The Specks 
of Rod immediately cut him 
into tiny pieces and fed 
him to their young.  King 
Rod, however, told the 
Specks of Rilonate that he 
was indeed their king, and 
since few Specks of 
Rilonate had ever seen 
their own king, they 
believed him.  Eventually, 
King Rod had the Specks of 
Rilonate build him a large 
castle which housed his 
children, who were half  
Speck of Rod and half  
Speck of Rilonate.  King 
Rod, posing as King 
Rilonate, lived to see his 
Specks harmoniously blend 
where it was previously 
thought impossible.
 
The Specks of Rilonate did 
not cultivate food on
 
------------
page 25
------
Ogdilla's back using their 
own spit like the Specks of 
Rod; instead they rubbed 
their heads on the fine, 
hairy grass-like particles 
that had attached 
themselves to cover the 
Rilonate portion of 
Ogdilla's back.  The 
rubbing caused static 
charges to build and build 
until small arcs of 
lightning flashed off of 
the Specks' heads.  
Ogdilla's blue gas in the 
immediate area of the arcs 
of lightning reacted by 
turning into bite-size 
cubes of lime-flavored 
finger snacks.  This was 
the sole source of food for 
the Specks of Rilonate.
 
Every 247 days (this was 
one year for the Specks of 
Rilonate, chosen
 
------------
page 26
------
arbitrarily because they 
did not have seasons) the 
Specks had their annual 
feast, which was called the 
"Fillange per Jungi." The 
great day began with the 
Concert of Rubbing, where 
the entire population of 
Rilonate, young and old 
alike, rubbed their heads 
on the hairy particles 
until they collapsed 
exhausted, unable to lift a 
limb.  About 3 hours after 
this frenzy, some specks 
regained enough strength to 
shakingly pull themselves 
upright.  Then the male 
specks began the Harvest of 
Cubes while the female 
specks prepared gastronomic 
delights such as:  Cube 
Fondue; Cube Salad; Cube 
Roast; Cube Soup; Cube and 
Cube-on-a-Stick (for the 
kids); Cube Paste; Cube
 
------------
page 27
------
Fillet, Cube Pie, Cube 
Relish, Cube Stuffing, 
Blackened Cube, Cube 
Kabobs, Cube Sherbet, Deep-
fat-fried Cube,  Cube Cake, 
Deep-fat-fried Cube Cake, 
Barbecued Cube, Cube 
Chowder, Glazed Cube, Cube 
Pandowdy, Broiled Cube, 
Blackened Cube, Cube 
Thermador, Cube on-the-
Rocks (for the adults), 
Steamed Cube, Smoked Cube, 
and of course, Susan's Cube 
Bubble Loaf.  While the 
delicious smells of cube 
cookery were filling the 
air, those who were not 
busy found time to 
participate in fun 
"Fillange per Jungi" games, 
like:  "Come Over Here," 
"Hey You Just Bumped My 
Friend's Elbow," "Are You 
Just Going To Stand There," 
and "This Is My Bucket."
 
------------
page 28
------
The day culminated with 
the "Fillange per Jungi" 
dance, which they performed 
lying on their backs with 
their feet as high in the 
air as they could possibly 
get them, first prize going 
to the dancers with their 
feet highest up.
 
King Rod, whom the Specks 
of Rilonate thought was 
King Rilonate, used the 
occasion of "Fillange per 
Jungi" to campaign for re-
election, since twelve days 
after the picnic was 
polling day.  The specks 
voted every year, but they 
only had two choices: King 
Rod Green Ballot or King 
Rod Purple Ballot. Either 
way, King Rod got re-
elected.
 
------------
page 29
------
"Fillange per Jungi" was 
the Specks of Rilonate 
Forgotten Day of Atonement.  
They knew that in their 
past there was a definite 
day set aside as a Day of 
Atonement, but it was 
forgotten before King Rod 
ever took over the position 
of King Rilonate.  At least 
they knew there once was a 
Day of Atonement, but the 
Specks could not remember 
what they need atonement 
for.  After King Rod took 
the throne, a speck named 
Hefamut, during the 
demolition of a shoe 
foundry, found a vague 
historical reference to a 
Day of Atonement called the 
"Fillange per Jungi."  The 
king's advisors advised the 
king to declare a new 
"Fillange per Jungi" and to 
have the marketing
 
------------
page 30
------
department think of some 
fun things to do on it.  No 
one could think of anything 
they needed atonement for, 
so the day is mostly 
remembered for the annual 
feast or for the dancing thing.
 The Specks of Rilonate 
determined when one day was 
over and a new day had 
begun by having the Day 
Determiner hold the 
Determiner Stone out at her 
side at arms-length.  When 
that day's Day Determiner 
could no longer hold her 
arm up, the day was 
declared done and the next 
Day Determiner took up the 
stone. Being Day Determiner 
was a prestigious honor, 
but no she-speck was 
allowed to do it more than 
once a year.
Rilonate specks married in 
threes... Two grooms and a
 
------------
page 31
------
bride, or two brides and 
a groom.  In either case 
the spouse with the two 
counterspouses had to 
alternate every day, 
being spouse to one, and 
then the next day to the 
other.  Each Speck year
the sequence is renewed, 
starting with the spouse 
who was shorted by one day 
the previous year.  The 
marriage ceremony of 
Rilonate was short and 
simple:  The three specks 
went before the king on the 
assigned day of their 
marriage appointment; each 
stated their vows, which 
consisted only of a promise 
to abide by the custom of 
spouse alternating, and a 
promise to never get ugly.  
The vows were repeated in 
this way: The king said to 
each speck, in-turn,
 
------------
page 32
------
"Do you, ___, promise 
to never get ugly?"  To 
which each responded in 
turn, "I do."  Then, in the 
case of one groom and two 
brides, for example, the 
king said to the groom 
speck, 
 
"Repeat after me.  I, 
___, take you, ___, 
to be one of my wedded 
wives, and you, ___, to 
be the other of my wedded 
wives."  
 
Annulment usually stemmed 
from one of the two brides 
or one of the two grooms 
(in the case of one bride 
and two grooms) feeling 
slighted because he/she was 
not the first one named in 
the vow.  Divorce usually 
stemmed from one spouse 
being cheated out of his or
 
------------
page 33
------
her fair share of marriage 
days on leap year, when an 
extra day went to the 
spouse who then renewed the 
new year's sequence!
------------------------------
pages total: 33
