pages total: 21
------------------------------
------------
page 1
------
Quater wanted to see what 
would happen if he made a 
creative being with a big 
heart.  Quater named him 
Hoborg, meaning "big 
heart."  
 
Hoborg was given a crown 
and he set-out into a void 
of clouds as Quater watched 
him from a distance.  
 
Hoborg liked the idea of 
making a place for some 
beings of his own.  He knew 
that the clouds that 
swirled around him would 
make a perfect sky, so he 
just needed to make some 
land.  One thing that 
concerned Hoborg was that 
perhaps some of his beings 
would come out bad.  He 
wanted to make beings which 
he could enjoy forever, but 
he did not want to force
 
------------
page 2
------
them to love and respect 
him.  He decided that he 
would make his beings with 
the ability to choose right 
and wrong.  Working 
everything out in his head, 
he figured he could make 
one child at a time and see 
if he turned out good 
before he started on the 
next.  Hoborg made a tiny 
scale model of his world in 
Klay (or clay) to see if it 
looked the way he had 
imagined it.  He spent 
about twenty years 
designing the shapes and 
colors of this place which 
he would call The Overhood.  
He needed some klay to make 
his world and the only 
place where klay could be 
found that was of the 
purity and quality Hoborg 
wanted, would take four 
hundred years to reach.  He
 
------------
page 3
------
was so anxious to get 
started that he asked for 
help from Quater.
 
"Quater, thank you for 
making me with such a fine 
crown... everything in life 
is just wonderful but I was 
wondering..."  Hoborg got 
down on one knee.  "Can you 
help get me to the Klay of 
Highest Quality?"
Quater laughed, "That would 
take even me a long time to 
reach!  What's wrong with 
the clay that I have 
already given you?"
Hoborg answered, "I like 
the clay you gave me for 
planning things, but I was 
hoping for the best 
ingredients for my beings.  
You see, I want them to 
last forever and clay only 
lasts for a few thousand 
years.
 
------------
page 4
------
Quater was impressed, 
"Here is a scope that will 
help you see as far as you 
need to.  You will be able 
to pick the shortest path 
to the Klay which should 
save you quite a few years 
of travel."
 
Hoborg received the scope, 
"Oh, thank you Quater!  You 
are very generous."
 
Hoborg started on his 
journey that same day.  
Looking through the scope 
he could clearly see the 
mountain of Klay he needed 
to build The Overhood. 
 
Every day was the same, 
Hoborg awoke before sunrise 
so that he could travel far 
without heat. But before he 
set off to travel each 
morning, he thought lofty
 
------------
page 5
------
respectful thoughts about 
Quater. Hoborg, in his 
ever-so-deep voice, would 
sing songs to the ground 
about how good it was to 
have been made. After a 
morning's journey, Hoborg 
would cover himself up in 
soil and rest. He resumed 
his mission in the 
afternoon and walked toward 
the great Mountain of Klay 
until late in the evening.
 
After 20 years of travel, 
Hoborg grew very lonely.  
Soon he could not stand to 
go on.  He found a chunk of 
land upon which he could 
stop and rest.  It had one 
spindly vine growing on it, 
and Hoborg lay down beside 
it to enjoy the shade it 
provided so he might be 
delivered from his 
discomfort.  And Hoborg was
 
------------
page 6
------
extremely happy about the 
plant.  But at dawn the 
next day a worm came and 
attacked the plant and it 
withered.  And it came 
about when the sun came up, 
that a scorching east wind 
and the white light of the 
sun beat down on Hoborg's 
head so that he became 
faint and begged to die, 
saying, "Death is better to 
me than life."
 
Hoborg could not get 
himself to do anything, he 
just lay there.  Hoborg 
began to scrape, absent-
mindedly, at the dirt where 
his hand lay.  Then he 
said, "Scraping is better 
to me than death."  It was 
a fine, dry dirt that was 
packed down and baked hard 
by the white sun.  His 
fingers bent, lifted and
 
------------
page 7
------
stretched; bent, lifted 
and stretched; bent, lifted 
and stretched, scratching 
relentlessly.  His fingers 
scraped through the layers 
of fine dust and grit day 
after day.  Just a few 
grains of dust and grit 
required weeks of scraping 
before it broke loose from 
the ground, the ground was 
that hard and compacted.  
More and more dirt added to 
the pile under his palm 
each month.  During the 
years that passed, the only 
sounds he heard were the 
scraping of his hand on the 
dirt and his breathing.  
After a pile big enough to 
pick up formed under his 
hand, he grabbed it, spat 
on it and squeezed it and 
squeezed it and squeezed it 
until his hand turned white 
and his knuckles made
 
------------
page 8
------
popping noises.  Hoborg 
sat up and looked at what 
lay in his palm as he 
opened his fist.  He saw 
that he had formed a clod 
of dirt.
 
Now the worm that had 
attacked the spindly vine 
and caused it to wither 
popped his head out of the 
ground and admired the 
clod, saying, "My, what a 
nice clod of dirt you've 
got there!"  Looking Hoborg 
up and down, it asked, "Did 
you make that all by 
yourself?"
 
"Yes, I did." said Hoborg.
 
"If I were you," said the 
worm, "I'd stay right here 
and make more dirt clods.  
You could fashion them into  
beings and populate this 
chunk of land with them. 
 
------------
page 9
------
After all, did you really 
see a pile of Klay through 
the scope Quater gave you?  
Or did you just want to see 
it because Quater said you 
would be able to see it?"
 
Hoborg answered, "Actually, 
Quater said the scope would 
enable me to see the 
shortest path to the Klay, 
and because of that, I 
should save quite a few 
years of travel.  But I've 
been traveling for so 
long..."
 
And the worm said to 
Hoborg, "You haven't saved 
any time in your journey. 
You haven't ever seen Klay, 
have you?  I wonder if 
Quater has ever seen Klay?"
When Hoborg thought of it 
that way, he also began to 
wonder.  Was there even
 
------------
page 10
------
such a thing as Klay?  He 
had only heard about it; 
he'd never seen any.  Then 
a thought occurred to 
Hoborg.  Sure, it had taken 
many years to collect 
enough dirt to make this 
one clod, but he had plenty 
of time, and he knew there 
was plenty of dirt right 
here; he did not have to 
keep searching for Klay.  
Or he could continue his 
journey, not even knowing 
when or if he would reach 
his goal.  He considered 
making more dirt clods and 
creating clod-beings right 
there to populate the chunk 
of land he had stopped on 
to rest.  Sure, it would 
take a lot of spit, but 
Hoborg figured he would 
find a way to work-up 
enough.  And now that he 
had a purpose for scraping
 
------------
page 11
------
he could use both hands 
and save time.  First he 
would he would finish 
creating a being from the 
dirt clod he already had 
made.
 
Hoborg knelt beside the 
thing he had put together.  
The hideous outrage of dirt 
stretched out, and then, as 
he  worked the clod with 
his hands, it began to show 
signs of life, and stirred 
with an uneasy, half- vital 
motion.  Frightful it must 
have been; for supremely 
frightful was the effect of 
his endeavor to mock the 
stupendous mechanism of his 
own creator, Quater.  His 
success terrified Hoborg; 
he cast away his odious 
handiwork, horror-stricken, 
as far and with as much 
velocity as he could throw
 
------------
page 12
------
it.  He hoped that, left 
to itself, out wherever it 
might land, the slight 
spark of life which had 
received such imperfect 
animation, would subside 
into dead matter.  Hoborg 
went to sleep in the belief 
that the silence of the 
grave would quench forever 
the transient existence of 
the hideous clod which he 
had looked upon as the 
cradle of life.  He slept; 
but in a dream he was 
awakened; he opened his 
eyes; beheld the horrid 
thing standing at his side 
under the spindly vine (in 
Hoborg's dream it grew 
back), and it looked on him 
with yellow, spit oozing, 
but speculative eyes.
 
Hoborg awoke (for real), 
and was horror stricken
 
------------
page 13
------
because he saw something 
far away, and it was 
growing less and less far 
away with every minute.  At 
first he thought it was the 
clod -creature coming back 
to get him, but as it got 
closer, he could see that 
it was much bigger than a 
dirt clod.  A short while 
passed before Hoborg could 
make out the shape.  It was 
a piece of land with a 
little red-roofed house on 
it.  There was a big robot 
and a little being on it.  
Hoborg realized that these 
folks would pass him if he 
did not act quickly so he 
took off his belt from 
around his waist and made a 
lasso.  He figured that it 
still was not long enough 
to reach this passing land 
mass, so in an act of 
desperation he gouged a
 
------------
page 14
------
chunk of his chest out and 
rolled it into a great 
snake that extended the end 
of his belt.  This 
contraption was long enough 
to lasso the land, which 
halted when the cord went 
taut.  The big robot 
pointed to Hoborg's chest 
and said. "Meeee Bil. Meeee 
Bil."
 
Hoborg waved and answered, 
"Meeee Hoborg.  I am 
Hoborg."
 
The smaller being (slightly 
smaller than Hoborg, but 
one fiftieth the size of 
Bil) pointed to Hoborg's 
chest and said, "Me think 
hims pointing your torso, 
big ouch!"
 
Hoborg had not realized 
that his guts were oozing
 
------------
page 15
------
out of the large fissure 
he had created in his 
chest. "Good Quater!  What 
am I going to do?"
 
The small being took of his 
own belt and instructed Bil 
to carry him down to where 
Hoborg was.  The being 
jumped into Bil's hand and 
he walked over to where 
Hoborg sat, about to pass-
out.  "Me Willie,"  the 
stranger said as he tied 
his belt over Hoborg's 
chest, clamping the severed 
sections together, and 
closing up the self-
inflicted injury.
 
Hoborg placed his hand on 
Willie's shoulder, "Hello 
Willie, I am Hoborg and you 
just saved my life!"  
 
Willie did not seem to
 
------------
page 16
------
acknowledge this 
statement.  Hoborg figured 
Willie was not altogether 
sane, but he was grateful 
just the same.
After a few days of rest, 
Hoborg decided it was best 
to continue on his journey.  
Hoborg asked Bil and Willie 
if they wanted to join him.  
Bil just said, "Meeeeeee 
Bil.  Meeeee Bil, "  and 
Willie mumbled a bunch off 
gibberish to himself.  
 
Hoborg liked their company, 
but he figured that they 
did not want to come along 
so he tearfully said good-
bye.  Hoborg was surprised 
to find that when he 
walked, Bil and Willie 
followed him.  Hoborg did 
not question them, he just 
grew happy inside and 
continued toward the Klay.
 
------------
page 17
------
Big Robot Bil (Hoborg 
found out his full name 
because it was engraved on 
the back of his foot) 
proved most useful for 
carrying Willie and Hoborg 
and the little red-roofed 
house over canyons too 
steep to climb. Hoborg 
noticed, while being 
carried by Big Robot Bil, 
that Bil's chest had a 
switch inside it marked 
"good" at the present 
setting and "bad" on the 
other setting.  Hoborg 
dared not find out what the 
"bad" setting did, but he 
thought it must be a poorly 
thought-out attempt at 
dealing with the same 
problems he had when he was 
planning  the making of 
beings that were capable of 
doing right and wrong.
 
------------
page 18
------
Within a few more years 
the three made it to the 
Klay.  It was a mountain of 
the purest Klay in the 
known universe and Hoborg 
found it to be of higher 
quality than he or even 
Quater imagined it would 
be.  He filled his crown up 
with a few good sized hunks 
of Klay; Bil and Willie 
carried a few hunks to 
help.  All together, Hoborg 
figured there was enough to 
make his Overhood and about 
two thousand beings.
 
On the way back to where 
Hoborg had started his 
journey, a Tickberger came 
upon the trio. A Tickberger 
is something all icky and 
sticky that Quater always 
said to run away from.  
Hoborg yelled for Bil to 
grab Willie and himself
 
------------
page 19
------
and make a run for it. A 
Tickberger is made to want 
what other beings have.  He 
could tell that they had a 
bunch of Klay so he licked 
his lips, exposed his fangs 
and said, "Klaaaaaay!"  As 
fast as Bil could run, it 
was not fast enough to out 
run the nimble Tickberger.  
The ID panel on the back of 
Bil's foot was removed with 
one swipe of Tickberger's 
razor sharp claw.  Hoborg 
saw that Bil was slowing 
down and that they would 
soon perish if they did not 
do something quick.  Hoborg 
threw all of the spare Klay 
over to the ground below.  
He figured the amount 
remaining would still be 
enough to make a medium 
sized world an about five 
hundred beings.  The 
problem was that as soon as
 
------------
page 20
------
Hoborg dumped the Klay, 
Tickberger gobbled it up, 
and it was still closing in 
on Bil.  Hoborg nervously 
threw some more Klay out 
and this time Tickberger 
ate it but slowed down 
considerably.  This was not 
good enough, since Bil also 
was slowing down 
considerably from the 
exhausting pace.  He simply 
could not carry on much 
longer.
 
Hoborg decided that he 
would have to be happy with 
about twenty beings in a 
small neighborhood as a 
world.  With that, he 
dumped most of his Klay 
over with just a bit left 
for his greatly reduced 
plans.  It worked this time 
since Tickberger stopped 
completely and could not
 
------------
page 21
------
follow them since he was 
stuffed with so much Klay.
 
Bil continued under 
Hoborg's guidance, holding 
the little red-roofed house 
on his shoulder where 
Willie and Hoborg could 
ride and room together. 
After many years' journey, 
Hoborg returned and was 
ready to build "The 
Everhood," a neighborhood 
that would last forever... 
 
...so long as nothing went 
wrong
------------------------------
pages total: 21
